…Etim lauds Buhari’s next level agenda, empowers 30,000
The All Progressive Congress, (APC) in Akwa Ibom State has accused the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) over what it described as desperate attempt to alter the zoning arrangement which has always been on existence in the state. This is just as the Senatorial candidate for Akwa Ibom North-East Senatorial District, Senator Bassey Etim empowers about 30,000 delegates from the nine local government areas making up the District. Speaking during the event tagged, “Akwa Ibom North-East Leadership and Empowerment Summit”, organised by Bassey Etim Support Group (BESG), Hon Etim who lauded president Muhammadu Buhari’s next level agenda, and said that the summit was organised to empower youths in the state. Etim stressed the need to invest in youth empowerment and leadership initiatives from an early age. “The nation will develop faster in all areas of our democracy and political sphere if appropriate policies are initiated to empower youths and the populace to become champions of change from tender age at grassroots levels,” said Etim. He further said, “It is important to harness and galvanise the vitality of Nigerian youths, who constitute critical mass of the population, in order to transform them into change agents for national cohesion and progress, from the cradle.” Also speaking at the event, Pastor Usen Ebong eulogised Etim Support Group over the well thought plan to bring the people of the senatorial district together in an unprecedented event which according to him had never happened in the history of the District. He added that the Summit has generated hope and unity among the Constituents particularly, the jobless graduates, under-privileged and the down-trodden. Other Participants at the event who took time to analyze the zoning principle of the senatorial district argued that it would be the turn of Uyo Federal Constituency to produce a senator for the senatorial district in the forthcoming general elections. The event venue which could not accommodate all the participants witnessed an unprecedented spill over to the adjoining streets thereby causing traffic jam. Senator Bassey Akpan and Hon. Bassey Etim have been logged on a legal battle on who represents the senatorial district. Uyo Senatorial district has been practicing zoning as far back as 1978 where the seat rotated within the three federal constituencies that make up the senatorial district. Senator Akpan’s LGA will complete two terms (8years) according to the zoning arrangement. The seat is supposed to rotate to Uyo federal constituency where Etim hails from. This was the reason why over 30,000 delegates gathered to discuss the way forward, which eventually led to the endorsement of Etim.