…Survivors cry out over scant medical attention
Some rescue workers of the collapsed 7-storey building under construction in GRA Phase 11, Port Harcourt, last Friday are lamenting lack of adequate equipment and manpower needed for the rescue of more persons trapped under the rubbles. Some of the workers who pleaded anonymity said Monday morning that the equipment in the site were not good enough for emergency purposes. “Government should try to look into the type of equipment we are using here. The manpower here is also insufficient. This means that government has not taken proactive measures towards those directions. “We don’t even have communication gadgets. For example, if you are going in there, you must have the proper gadget to enable you communicate with people outside. Considering the height of the collapsed building, we have many floors on top of each other. We also need touch because there is darkness in there. The workers also need encouragement,” one of them explained. In another development some survivors of the collapsed building are lamenting over what they described as inadequate medical attention by health providers in the state. One of them said that after the initial administration of drips on them, no other treatment had been provided. He said some of them had to resort to self help. Although the actual number of people in the building before the collapse has not been ascertained, 38 persons had so far been pulled out of the rubble with 6 deaths recorded as at press time. Meanwhile the Rivers State Governor, Barr. Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has directed the State Attorney-General to set up a Commission of Inquiry to ascertain the remote and immediate causes of the collapse of the Private 7-storey building at Woji road, New GRA, Port Harcourt, capital city of the state. The governor also ordered the immediate arrest of the owner of the collapsed building, saying that the State Government would bring all culprits to book. Governor Wike described the collapse of the building as a sad development which has led to the painful loss of lives.