For Omololu Adetokunbo Shomuyiwa, 2018 former housemate of the popular Big Brother Naija show; life journey has not been rosy from the beginning but determination has got him this far. His road to success started at a tender age, under his mother’s tutelage Lolu voraciously learnt and read books while others had toys and played video games. A graduate of Sociology with minors in Politics and Business from the University of Ilorin; months after the BBN show, Lolu has embarked on a couple of youthful trips and the recently launched his YouTube channel ‘ Chronicles of Lolu’ which is aimed at addressing a potpourri of issues, be it social, personal growth, entertainment. In this chat with MUTIAT ALLI, Lolu open up on life after the BBN reality show, growing up, interest in politics, and celebrity crush amongst others. With your supposed love tangle with fellow housemate ‘Anto’ what is the status of your relationship with her?
Anto and I remain really good friends, we support each other through our hustles and pursuit of success, As I have said before, we are both firmly focused on making the best of the opportunity that we have now through the platform that Big Brother Naija has provided us. She is a very mentally attractive person and if the status of our friendship changes into something more, we will make that known one way or another. You once made a post on social media that you are currently single, does that mean that there is no possibility of a relationship with ‘Anto’?
I have learnt to never say never so there is always a possibility. At this time though since I am not in a relationship, I am single (smiles) Months after Big Brother Naija, what have you been up to?
I have quietly but concertedly worked on building a brand, one that would suffice and stand the test of time. I have had some really interesting meetings at home and abroad since I left house and I am feeling very positive about all that is the offing. I recently premiered my YouTube series titled “Chronicles of Lolu” which is aimed at addressing a potpourri of issues, be it social, personal growth, entertainment etc. I hope this resonates across board. I am also working on partnering with some international bodies to help improve the state of every African youth through skill development, education and putting them in positions that expose them to brilliant opportunities. Also, I am in talks with a few corporate that I can’t mention but things are looking quite positive and I’ll share more as soon as I can on this. In the future, I will want to return to school as well. You have been involved in several youth empowerment programme since you left the house, how has it been?
It has been eye opening and I am very honoured to have been able to do the little I can. Nigeria and indeed our continent is blessed beyond what we can truly wrap our heads around, we have no business being where we are now. It is indeed the right thing to do to teach and empower the youth so that they know the value that they hold and the value of what we have as a nation. Through this we can now fully harness all that is within and put ourselves through investing in the youth, on a path of success tomorrow. Investing in today to secure tomorrow. You hinted that come 2019 you will be fully involved in politics, how prepared are you for that?
Being on BBN has given me a platform and a voice that said, I am aware that this comes with a certain level of clout, one that is good enough to be appointed as an adviser but not large enough to run for an elected post. Naturally, the goal is to be able to run for an elected post in the future but at this time, I will be more than happy to take up advisory role in government either in the media, information dissemination or youth related matters. In whatever capacity I am called upon to serve, I am sure to give my all. You participated at the 2018 edition of the Big Brother Naija show; what prompted your decision to do so?
I have always seen myself as a brand; I have through the years worked in different sectors and garnered as much experience as I could. Heading into the show all I needed to do was sell me enough to attract the right people and opportunities in my quest for resounding success. I felt that the show would add something I long craved, exposure. It is of no use being this or that without being shown to the world and achieving the best with whatever you have or are. While some of the BBN contestants have delved into acting, will you be considering that anytime soon?
During my time in the house, a few of the tasks made me act, since then I have heard a lot of people say I should consider roles in acting. I am and willing to take on a few roles. This would be largely based on the script and the director. I look forward to hearing from Nigeria’s biggest and finest in the movie sector. So how have you been enjoying your new celebrity status?
(Smiles) I think fame should only improve your life and not change your person or ideas. I am still the same person before BBN; people just know my face more. It is nice to hear people say nice things and not so nice things. I think I have a long way to go to be considered celebrity; I am just a young man trying to be successful. What has been a celebrity deprived you of since BBN?
SLEEP! There is so much to do and achieve, I find myself sleeping a lot less, I imagine that I would I might need to take some time off very soon. What did you do differently at the BBN house to stay that long?
I would not say that I did in particular; I would say that I just took each day as it came at me, thinking about today, today. I also stayed true to my beliefs and person all the way. There was no need trying to be someone or something else when being myself was what got me through the auditions in the first place. As a first timer in the competition; did your experience match your expectation?
I have always been a big fan of the Big Brother Franchise and as such I knew that no matter how intelligent or forward thinking one is, Big Brother is always one step ahead and your expectations will always be exceeded. This was the same in my case; every day was an experience, something I’ll forever remain grateful for. What were some of your memorable moment in the house?
I thinking getting into the house on the first day was memorable, winning Payporte games, my diary sessions were also something I will always treasure and cherish. If given a chance, what will you change about the competition?
I would not necessarily change anything – I will only add more cultural content, learning about our cultures. I think it would be a good way to know more and appreciate our identity. Before the Big Brother competition, who was Lolu?
Lolu was your typical regular guy next door trying to be successful the right way. I was a general manager at an investment firm called JaceDarl Investment in Abuja. Lolu was a guy that loved to read, never really went out and always made sure those around him were in the best positions possible at all times despite not having much at the time. Lolu was one who always looked for ways to improve himself and used every experience to learn and grow. Who are your greatest influences in life?
My Mother, God Rest Her Soul, Alhaji Aliko Dangote for his foresightedness and business acumen, Chief Mike Adenuga and Dr. Mrs Ngozi Okonjo Iweala. What was growing up like for you?
Growing up was challenging but beautiful, I have the best siblings in the world and even though we did not have much, we always found reasons to be happy and hopeful. I grew up having to sacrifice a lot, at the time I didn’t know what I was gaining but I see today that has shaped me into a man a lot of close people describe as selfless. I grew up with a lot of books and all the love any young boy could ever crave. Memorable childhood moments?
Playing board games with my little sister and my mother, writing down countries alphabetically with mom too, first time at a cinema to see a movie with her, my days in boarding house as a 9 year old back in a school called Olatunde Memorial Group of Schools in Ilesa, Osun State. What is your definition of style?
Simplicity is class, Being comfortable should be foremost at all times. How do you unwind?
I eat, read and play a lot of television games; I am a big Formula 1 fan so I find time to watch the Grand Prix when I can. Watching football is something I enjoy too. I love to spend time with family and those that matter too. Celebrity female crush in Nigeria?
Rita Dominic, Genevieve Nnaji and Osas Ajibade.