By: Isaac Oguntoye The Convener, Dr. Richards Ikpada-Poku, the Executive Director, described the honour conferred on Agbeyo as well-deserving owing to his exploits in leadership and youth empowerment. Also speaking at the event, Vice President of the institute, Mr. Babatunde Akinsanya said Agbeyo has a record that young people can emulate to restore Africa back to its rightful position in the global circle. In his words, he said “Dr. Babatope was recognised for the vital role he has played in leadership, innovation and his deep personal commitment to helping citizens of the world and his outstanding contribution to an entrepreneur in West Africa.” “Have unanimously selected you as one of the five awardees for the 2018 roll call of honors, this is a result of your phenomenal and exemplary statesmanship contributions to enhance Africa economic growth, we are very proud to celebrate with one of your renown establishments, Botosoft Technologies Ltd, the recent historic approval and acceptability of her I.C.T. services in Republic of Kenya, this is another ground breaking attestation of your professional competence.” With the honour, Agbeyo will be joining the league of renowned global leaders and eminent personality like; Alhaji. Dr. Mohammed Hassan Koguna, Alhaji. Barr. Ibrahim Shehu Shema, Dr Mrs. Nana Konadu Rawlings, Barr. Mrs. Uju Catherine Ifejika and others as council of fellows. In his response,  the Usi-Ekiti, Ekiti State-born  businessman, who holds a master’s degree in Media and Communications from Birmingham City University, United Kingdom, thanked the visiting team for the recognition and honour while pledging not to disappoint the institute and millions around Africa continent that draw inspiration from him. Meanwhile, Babatope’s apt and ingenuity has won him many awards and recognition locally and internationally, particularly in Nigeria, the United Kingdom and United States of America. His network of partners and influence spans across many countries including the USA, UK, Germany, South Korea, China and many other African countries.