…Mannah: Rivers lawmakers intimidated, leader of PDP in state leading party like a dictator
The Rivers State House of Assembly and its member representing Ahaoda-East Constituency 1, Martins Mannah are locked in war of words over the defection or otherwise of Mannah. While the lawmaker insist that he has left the party due to some anomalies that he could no longer put up with, the state Assembly has denied knowledge of such, asking him to come forward to substantiate his allegations. Mannah had during his defection to the All Progressives Congress said Rivers State lawmakers are being intimidated and denied their rights by Governor Nyesom Wike. “All the governor sold to us was a big fat lie. When they were campaigning they told us that there was a blueprint of what they will do when they enter government. Let them show us the blueprint. “Let me tell you, there is no blueprint anywhere. The leader of the PDP in Rivers State is leading the party like a dictator. “In the history of Rivers State, we have never been in opposition. Opposition politics cannot pay us, our people must understand this,” he had said. But the Rivers State House of Assembly stated that the House will use its internal mechanism to address issues of any infraction against the legislature. Chairman, House Committee on Information and Training, Sam Ogeh said this while briefing newsmen in Port Harcourt. Sam Ogeh also dissociated members of the Rivers State House of Assembly from claims by Martins Mannah that members are not happy with the Speaker, Ikuinyi Owaji-Ibani. He further emphasised that it is not true that members of the eight Assembly suffers intimidation and are denied their rights by the Executive. According to Ogeh, “We operate a democracy and we have our rules. As a responsible Assembly we work by the rules of the House. If there is any infraction against the House we will use our internal mechanism to address it. “On the defection of Martins Mannah I can tell you that it is not before the House. “The House under the leadership of the Speaker, Ikuinyi Owaji Ibani is not in anyway intimidated. We conduct our business to the best of our ability devoid of pressure or interference from any quarters. “We are united and we are committed to the course of collaborating with the governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike to develop the state.”