… Withdraws Akwa Ibom REC’s confirmation
Senate yesterday confirmed the appointment of Justice Adamu Abdu- Kafarati as substantive Chief Judge of the Federal High Courts. Senate’s confirmation of the judge was sequel to recommendation made to that effect by the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. The chairman of the committee, Senator David Umaru (APC, Niger East) presenting his report said Kafarati’s nomination for the position was forwarded to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari through a letter of request read on the floor of the senate on Tuesday and forwarded to the committee for consideration. The Committee declared that Kafarati is qualified for the position in all ramifications and accordingly adopted by the Senate at the committee of the whole. In his remarks, the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu who presided over the session admonished the confirmed Chief Judge to live above board in the discharge of his duties. President Buhari had in his letter of request for the confirmation of Kafarati said: “In accordance with the provisions of Section 250 (1) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, I write to request for the confirmation of the Senate, the appointment of Honourable Justice Adamu Abdul Kafarati as the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court. “It is my hope that the distinguished senate will consider and confirm the nominee in its usual expeditious manner”. Meanwhile, senate also yesterday backed down its confirmation of Elder Monday Udo Tom as Resident Electoral Commissioner. His confirmation was stepped down and the committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), was asked to look into petition written against him. This followed an order 43 and 53 raised by Senator Bassey Akpan (Akwa Ibom, PDP) through which he referred the INEC committee to a petition written against Elder Udo on April 5, 2018 and addressed to the committee on Ethics and Privileges. He said the committee failed to take cognizance of the petition and consequently failed to consider same during the screening exercise. He, therefore, asked that Udo’s confirmation be stepped down to enable the Ethics committee looked into the petition. Senate president, Bukola Saraki ruled that the issue be referred back to the committee on INEC for further investigation while the confirmation be stepped down.