…Dismisses his no case submission
A Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos, on Tuesday, dismissed a no-case submission filed by former Abia State Governor Orji Uzor Kalu in his bid to stop his trial over an alleged N3.2bn fraud. Kalu, alongside his former Commissioner for Finance and Account, Jones Udeogu, and a company, Slok Nigeria Limited, are being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on an amended 39-count charge of alleged involvement in money laundering to the tune of N3.2billion. The EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), had on May 11, 2018, closed its case against the defendants, after the conclusion of evidence given by Chidi Chukwuku, a prosecution witness, deputy director, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, NDIC. During the proceedings, the prosecuting lawyer had also moved an oral application to amend the charge against the defendants in view of the evidence given so far. But the defence team led by Awa Kalu (SAN) had on May 28 filed a no-case submission on behalf of their clients, which they subsequently adopted as their written address. Justice Muhammed Idris, in his short ruling on the no case-submission on Tuesday, held that the prosecution had established a prima facie case against the defendants based on the evidence against them. He also held that there was a link between Kalu and the two others. The judge then said, “You have explanations to make. Following the ruling, Goddy Uche, one of the defence lawyers, informed the court that the lead lawyer to the defendants had written to notify the court that Kalu has an appointment to undergo a surgery abroad. He, therefore, prayed the court to adjourn the matter till September 10, 2018 to enable Kalu open his defence. But Jacobs in his response, urged the court to adjourn further proceedings to the first week of September, saying that “the President of the Court of Appeal has directed that the matter must be concluded before the end of September 2018.” Meanwhile, the court has adjourned the case till September 10 for the defendants to open their defence.