…Govs seek unity as IBB warns politicians against unguided utterances
As Nigeria joins the rest of the Muslim world to celebrate Eid-el-Kabir, President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, state governors and other prominent Nigerians have urged Nigerians to rise above personal, group, sectarian and other form of divisionary interests, and promote harmony and tolerance in dealing with one another at all times. President Buhari in his Sallah message, emphasised that “we must sacrifice for others and remember always those who are less fortunate than ourselves”. Buhari tasked the Muslim Ummah to use the occasion of the festivities for sober reflection and self-examination, and strive to be good ambassadors of their religion by upholding high moral values. He reminded Muslims that this felicitous occasion of Eid-ul-Adha is a remembrance of the submission of Prophet Ibrahim (Allaihis-Salam) to Allah, his creator, by which he taught the world the value of sacrifice in relating with one another, and when it comes to nation-building. Buhari explained that religion is a major factor in influencing human behaviour towards good conduct and actions. He, however, regretted that selfishness, greed and corruption have overwhelmed human souls to the extent that people abandon their religious beliefs in pursuit of their greed. The President stressed that fighting corruption is a task that must be done in order to protect the larger interests of the ordinary Nigerians who are the worst victims of disease, poverty, malnutrition and other afflictions. He said surrendering to corruption is not an option because it destroys society and the progress of nations, adding that “even if some people hate you for fighting corruption, you should not chicken out from the task as a leader because doing so is a betrayal of public trust”. On the current economic challenges facing Nigerians, the President reassured that such are temporary because the welfare of the people is the main thrust of the change agenda of the administration. To buttress this point, President Buhari cited the many initiatives unfolded by the administration under the Social Investment Programme (SIP) among which was the recent decision to distribute recovered stolen funds to the poor against the past practices of re-looting such funds by some people in authority. Saraki, in his Sallah message, urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of brotherhood and peaceful co-existence in their relationship during this festive period and beyond. He urged Nigerians to increase their efforts in charitable endeavours, perseverance and spiritual intercession for the nation. Saraki, therefore, urged Nigerians to further devote their prayers at the Eid praying grounds to the call on Allah to restore peace in all parts of the country, strengthen national unity and rebuild the economy. Saraki also congratulated Muslims on the celebration of the 2018 Eid-el-Kabir festival and described the special occasion as “a period that honours the willingness of Prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his son to show submission to Allah’s command”. Also, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, urged the Muslim Ummah and Nigerians in general to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, love and tolerance for the peace, unity and progress of the country. In his goodwill message to Muslims to mark the Eid el-Kabir celebration, Dogara charged religious leaders to always preach and promote ethno-religious tolerance as well as foster peace and unity among the people ahead of the 2019 general election for the good of the nation. “While rejoicing with our Muslim brothers on this auspicious occasion of Eid-el-Kabir celebration, which symbolises sacrifice and obedience, I wish to urge all people of goodwill to be steadfast in love for one another and demonstrate renewed commitment to the Nigerian project in order to make our society ideal for all and towards the fulfillment of the country’s great potentials. “I also urge our religious leaders to take advantage of the season and preach peace, unity and tolerance among the diverse people, especially now that the country is at a critical political crossroads, with the electioneering process gaining momentum as the 2019 general election draw nearer”. Let’s put aside religious differences- Gov Okowa
Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in his goodwill message called on Nigerians to put aside their religious and political differences and push for a united country as Muslims mark the Eid-El-Kabir. He urged Muslims to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by the prophet. Okowa said that the Eid-el-Kabir was a season of love, peace, togetherness and sacrifice, declaring that “I urge you to use the period to uphold the spiritual benefit of the celebration by extending a hand of friendship and solidarity across all divides and imbibe the spirit of sacrifice and obedience to the higher authority as exemplified by Prophet Ibrahim and upheld by Prophet Muhammed”. We need peace – Gov Ayade
Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade while felicitating with Muslims in the country on the festival of Eid-el-Kabir, harped on peace and sacrifice as Muslims in Nigeria join their counterparts round the world to mark the occasion. He urged them to imbibe the spirit of love, obedience, sacrifice and sharing that the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir signifies in line with the principle of Islam. The governor urged Muslims and Nigerians to be ready to make the sacrifices necessary for the progress of the country, which is currently passing through challenging times. Ayade said Nigerians should keep aside all forms of religious, ethnic and tribal sentiments, in the interest of unity, progress, peace and prosperity of the country. There’s need to promote love, sacrifice- Gov Obaseki
Similarly, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has felicitated with Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir. In a statement issued in Benin City on Monday, Obaseki said that “on behalf of the government and people of Edo State, I felicitate with the Muslim faithful on the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir”. The governor stated that the “Eid-el-Kabir offers our Muslim brothers and sisters yet another opportunity to deepen their relationship with Allah, promote a life of sacrifice, charity and love as exemplified by Prophet Mohammed”. He assured that the state government has put in place measures to guarantee that everyone is secure in the state during the Sallah celebration and beyond. Gov Dickson seeks unity among Nigerians
Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson in his Eid-el-Kabir Eid-el-Kabir message, urged Muslims to love one another and pray for the peace and unity of Nigeria. The governor admonished Muslims to take advantage of the celebration to propagate brotherly love among Nigerians of all religions. The governor, who regretted that the country is more than ever before too divided along religious, ethnic and partisan lines, called on Nigerians to jettison the hate speeches that tend to threaten the age-long love, unity and peaceful co-existence of the people of the country. Gov Wike urges Nigerians to emulate Prophet Mohammed
Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike while felicitating with Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, urged them to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by the prophet. In his Sallah message, Governor Wike described the Eid-el-Kabir as a season of love, peace, togetherness, and sacrifice. He urged all Nigerians to embrace religious tolerance which would promote peace across the country and enhance national development, just as he prayed God to use the Sallah period to impact positively on the lives of Nigerians. Gov Amosun seeks peaceful co-existence
Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun in his message felicitated with Muslims on the celebration of the Eid-el-Kabir, urging them to pray for peaceful co-existence among Nigerians. He said this in his Eid-el-Kabir message to Muslim faithful, signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Otunba Adedayo Adeneye. The governor urged Muslim faithful to look beyond the merriment of the period, but focus more on praying for peace and harmony, which according to him, will ensure progress and development of the nation. “During this festival of feast, we should ensure that we truly imbibe the virtues of Prophet Ibrahim, who in obedience to God’s directive sacrificed his only son. “Beyond the sacrifice, we should also not relent in praying for peace, unity and religious tolerance, which are essential to sustaining the glory of our dear nation”, the governor added. Gov Ahmed wants total submission to Allah’s will
Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed in congratulating Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-el-kabir festival, urged them to imbibe the lessons of total submission and obedience to the will of Almighty Allah and promote the principle of being one another’s keepers. The governor, who emphasised the need for devotion to the services of the Supreme Being, charged Muslims to pray for the unity, peace, progress and stability of the country as the nation approaches another period of general election. He urged everyone to participate actively in the forth-coming elections by making sure that they obtain their permanent voters’ cards. “Let’s guide against hate speech, thuggery and violence but imbibe lessons of the season and pray for free, fair and credible elections in 2019 and beyond,” the governor said. Governor Ahmed expressed his gratitude to the people of the state for their support and prayers over the years and renewed his commitment to bequeathing a worthy legacy for his successor. IBB warns politicians against unguarded utterances
Meanwhile, ahead of the 2019 general elections, former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, has admonished politicians against unguided utterances that will throw the nation into jeopardy. He stated in his Sallah message that Muslims should use the unique virtue of sacrifice of the Eid-el-Kabir to further unite and strengthen the nation. According to him, the festival is a unique and important festivity in the last lap of the Islamic calendar year for all Muslims globally to make sacrifices and religious rites. The former military President posited that “it is our collective duty during this sacred month and period of devotion to glorify Allah and adhere to our religious teachings by maintaining peace, protecting the sanctity of human life and unite to solve the problems bedeviling us collectively as a nation”. Consequently, he cautioned that “political gladiators should not allow their personal political ambitions overshadow their sense of reasoning and to be guided in their utterances as such speeches are capable of plunging our polity in jeopardy especially during electioneering period”. Babangida also said that “at this auspicious occasion of Eid-el-Kabir, I urge all Nigerians from all works of life or political affiliations to be in the vanguard of peace, unity and work for rancour-free polls in the build up to the forthcoming political dispensation”. FCT minister facilitates with Muslims
Felicitating with Muslims, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Mohammed Bello assured residents of the FCT that his administration will continue to consolidate on providing adequate infrastructure as embedded in the FCT master – plan. The minister stated that the FCT administration is working round the clock to launch the city into the circle of the best cities in the world in the near future. According to him, the administration has striven to achieve this through the provision of first class infrastructure and public utilities, saying that “the recent completion and commissioning of the light rail is testimony to our collective resolve and patriotism to our fatherland. “Our security agencies are working tirelessly to ensure that our city and territory continues to be safe and secure for all residents to go about their legitimate businesses”. The minister used the occasion to reassure residents of FCTA’s commitment to fast-track the fulfillment of the pledge to improve the living standards of residents through the completion of ongoing infrastructure projects and to initiate critical ones in the city, satellite towns and the rural communities. APC seeks unity, sacrifice
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in its Sallah message felicitated with Muslims and indeed all Nigerians on the joyous celebration of the Eid-El-Kabir, the holy Islamic festival to commemorate the obedience and willingness of Prophet Ibrahim to follow Almighty Allah’s (SWT) command to sacrifice his son. “On this momentous occasion, we share below the inspiring message by Imam Abdullahi Abubakar, the 83-year -old Islamic cleric who courageously saved the lives of over 300 multi-faith people in Nghar village, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State when conflict broke out there in June. “The holy Prophet Mohammed lived in peace and harmony with diverse groups of different faiths. In following his teaching and steps, we must all appreciate the fact that Almighty Allah created us with our diversities. We must embrace the diversity and strive to live in peace with one another. “If Almighty Allah wanted us to be the same, it would have been so, but Almighty Allah brought us together to create a harmony. We should all respect one another and be selfless advocates for peace for we are all of equal values in the eyes of the Almighty Allah,” the party stated. CAN rejoices with Muslims
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in a statement rejoiced with the Muslim Ummah in the country as they celebrate this year Eid-al-Adha, otherwise known as the festival of sacrifice. “It is needless to remind our Muslim brothers and sisters that the festival is to commemorate the willingness of Abraham to sacrifice his son as an act of obedience to God who commanded him to do so with a view to tempting him. “The CAN urges all Muslims to remember this sacrificial lifestyle of Abraham as they rejoice and celebrate. They should know that no sacrifice is too great to promote peace, harmony, love, unity, forgiveness and accommodation in their relationship with those who are non-Muslims. “God must have reasons for allowing both Christianity and Islam to co-exist in the country. We appeal to the adherents of both religions to embrace peace and love. Once this is done, most of the ongoing killings in Nigeria will become history; after all both religions traced their sources to Abraham. “If we are both his children, what joy do we derive in killing ourselves? Abraham was a man of peace and faith. It is high time we followed his footsteps,” CAN said.