Joy Anyim …suspect says he was promised visa to USA to join gay club
No fewer than 57 young men suspected to be involved in gay practice were on Monday paraded by the Lagos State Police Command. The suspects were allegedly arrested during an initiation ceremony in one Kelly Ann Hotel cum Event Centre located on No. 3-7 Adenrele Street, Egbeda Lagos. The Lagos Commissioner of Police, CP Imohimi Edgal who paraded the suspects at the Command Headquaters in Ikeja said they were arrested on August 26th, 2018. Edgal stated that the arrests were made based on credible intelligence from men of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps(LNSC). Speaking, the State Police Boss said, “intelligence gathered revealed that some youths (males) will be initiated into a Gay/Homosexual Club between 1am and 2am. This is an action is contrary to section 1 (1) of Same Sex Marriage Act 2014. “ Consequent upon this, operatives led by DPO Shasha and DPO Idimu stormed the venue at 2am. On arrival, young men numbering about 80 were met in a hall taking different types of drinks including banned substance like Tramadol, Shisha laced with substances suspected to be Marijuana (IGBO).” The suspects had fled the venue of the initiation on sighting the police. However the Police whi gave then a hot chase has arrested 57 of them. One of the suspect admitted to the crime while others who spoke with our correspondent maintained they were innocent and had only gathered for a birthday party. The suspects also revealed that it wasn’t an all guys party as the police claim but that the girl who were arrested with them had been granted bail by the police. Madu Austin said truely he came to jointhe gay club where he was promised a visa to the United States of America. According to Austin, “ i was taken to the gay party for initiation. It was James that took me there where they promised me a Visa to USA if i joined them.” Contrary to Austin’s confession, Obialo James who publicly declared he is HIV positive and a dancer said the police have no proof that they were gay. James said, “ I am a 20 year old dancer. I had only gone to that hotel because a birthday celebrant had called for my services. The truth is that the police has no proof that we are actually gay.” On his HIV status, the suspect said, “ i am HIV positive and contacted the infection from mother to child. Since my arrest on Saturday, i have not been taking my drugs which is very dangerous,” he cried.” Wealth Olasukunmi who is 25 year old and a graduate of Mass Communication from the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU)said the police had not done a proper job. He said, “ I am a graduate of Mass Communication from OOU, awaiting the complusory National Youth Service Corps. I was invited to a birthday party at that hotel by a friend. Althoigh i do not know the celebrant i had only followed my friend to the party. “ the truth is that the police just came to arrest us all woth telling us what our offence was. We are only getting to know that they suspect us to be gay during this briefing, which is not true. The allegation that it was an all guys party is also not true. There were girls in that party. At least i saw about eight of them. ” The girls were in the rooms doing their make up while we were in the hall drinking. I am not gay,” he maintained. Edgal who spoke further on the arrest said investigation into the case is ongoing. He also emphaised that the owner of the hotel must be arrested and brought to the command to answer for the alleged offence. Father to one of the suspect, Mr. Eke Ede who had come to secure the release of the his son but was told he was been held for a grievious offence said, “ my son Ede Ameachi called his younger brother that he was arrested. The offence he is been held for is unimaginable. “ my son sells phone accesseries, on the day he was arested, he had told his brother he was going for a naming ceremony. He pleaded the police to do a detailed investigation into allegation. “