…Offers them scholarships to acquire diploma in security management
…‘Guards action at MMIA gives global attention to Nigeria on honesty’
Management of Halogen Securities Limited, on Thursday, rewarded the two security guards: Achi Daniel and Francis Emepueaku, with the amount of N250,000 each. Achi and Emepueaku had on August 18, 2018 found and returned a bag containing dollars and other valuables items to the owner, a lady who just arrived Nigeria from the United States. The security firm at an event organised to celebrate the guards for their honesty and examplary conduct, also offered them scholarships that would enable them to further acquire a Diploma in Security Management. Group Managing Directorof the firm, Mr. Wale Olaoye, disclosed these rewards in an occasion to honour the two security heroes at Halogen office in Ikeja GRA, Lagos. Olaoye said that the action of the Halogen guards is a pointer that light can come out of Nigeria, appealing to other professionals to emulate the high level of integrity demonstrated by Achi and Emepueaku. Commending the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Olaoye said: “Today, what we may see as inconsequential has caught global attention. It is work in progress and we are in the pursuit of excellence. If FAAN didn’t give opportunities to Nigerians who have caught their teeth in their professional endeavours, we will not be celebrating what we are celebrating today”. He pointed out that if the two Halogen guards can make this positive impact at this level, then Nigeria must have wasted that capability to make change. He stressed that Halogen has a system that supports and monitors their staff wherever they may be, since the last 26 years. In his remark, Managing Director of FAAN, Engr. Saleh Dunoma, expressed joy and delight over the attitude of the two guards, saying that recent repeated developments at the nation’s airports and other public places have been underscoring the truth that Nigerians are good, honest, hardworking and dedicated people. Dunoma, who was represented by Director, Engineering Services, Salisu Daura, said that FAAN has a catalogue of feedback from elated airport users who have expressed their joy and appreciation for what they are doing at the airport. He said: “Today is another of such days, as two members of staff of Halogen Securities Limited, Messrs Francis Emepueaku and Achi Daniel have also distinguished themselves via the display of acts of honesty and examplary conduct by retrieving, contacting and handing over a hand bag full of valuables that was forgotten at the multi-storey car park to the owner “. “Finally, let me also congratulate Halogen Securities Limited and the managers of this parking facility. You may not know what these gentlemen have done for your image, business, profitability and organisational reputation today; I will advise that you continue to contribute your quota to the actualisation of the potentials of this great nation by going the extra miles at all times and ensuring that your staff are well motivated for excellence”. In an earlier message to Halogen Security Limited, Dr. Banji Oyegbami, a Lagos based medical practitioner and a family friend of the owner of the lost bag who witnessed the incident, expressed hope that Nigeria will be great again with men of integrity such as are being raised by Halogen Security Company Limited. ‘I was really surprised at the level of honesty and integrity displayed by Mr. Francis and Mr. Achi Daniel both of Halogen Security and I think they should be commended. There is no doubt, Nigeria is going to be great again with these kind of new breed of professionals ’’, he added.