The Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State, Alhaji Abdullahi Chafe and International Federation of Women Lawyers(FIDA), have vowed to go against perpetrators of human rights abuses, saying heavy punishment awaits any one convicted of such crime.  The duo who specifically advised Nigerians to refrain from meting out jungle justice on suspects of crime to promote administration of criminal justice in the country gave the advice in Ado Ekiti at the weekend during a programme organized by FIDA on the administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015.  The police boss and FIDA’s Chairperson in Ekiti, Mrs Adefunke Anoma however regretted the increasing wave of jungle justice in Nigeria, describing the conduct as barbaric and not in tandem with the letters of the 1999 constitution, which presumes a suspect innocent until proved otherwise by a competent court of law.  The programme, which was supported by MacArthur Foundation , according to organizers was meant to canvass for effective administration of criminal justice Act in Ekiti State.  Chafe said the implementation requires political will to survive, saying a lot of impediments needed to be tackled to achieve this onerous task.  “Jungle justice is a gross human right abuses. To stop our men from engaging in such, the present Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris established Police Public Relations School where workshops on human rights protection are organized.  “We are ready to partner with judicial officers to stop the menace and ensure that no Nigerian is punished unduly.  “Today, we have made it a practice that no Nigerian should be detained beyond 48 hours before being taken to court, because it will infringe on its right.  “The reason why criminal justice system has not be effectively implemented was due to lack of political will on the part of government. “Even the business and political elites are not helping matters, including lawyers. They always look for ways to shoot down any policy that is against their interest.  “We have experienced situations whereby lawyers went to court to get order to stop police from arresting a suspect. The police are ready to support any move that will help in checkmating miscarriage of justice”.  The FIDA’s boss said only a court has the capacity to prove the innocence and guilt of any suspect, not even the police.  “If someone commit any offence, arrest him and charge him to court within 48 hours or discharge him. Nobody has the capacity to pronounce someone judgement on anybody”.  Delivering her lecture on Effective Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015, a lawyer, Mrs Titi Olaolorun, described the law as beneficial, saying it will make the country operates in line with international best practices in human rights protection.  Olaolorun however, advised that judicial officers and security agencies must be effectively trained to make the implementation a reality .