*Senator slumps, dies in Abuja home Chairman of the National Assembly and President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki has confirmed the death of one of his colleagues, Senator Ali Wakili. Aged 58, Senator Wakili (APC, Bauchi South), was said to have  died Saturday morning after slumping at his Gwarimpa residence in Abuja. Putting to rest what broke out as a rumour, the Senate President made a detour from his social outing to pay condolence visit to the Wakili family. Saraki  said ” I was enroute to celebrate with Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo and family on their daughter’s wedding, when I heard about the passing on of my friend and colleague, Senator Ali Wakili. I am now on my way to the Wakili house to pay my respect to his family. “Inalilah was Ina Ilaehi Rajiun. It is the Almighty Allah (SWT) that gives life, and it is him that takes it away. I pray that the Almighty Allah grants the dear departed Senator a place in All Hannah Fridays”. Sources confirmed to TVC News that Senator Wakili who until his death was the Chairman of Senate Committee on Poverty Alleviation slumped on Saturday morning and was rushed to a nearby hospital in the Gwarimpa district of Abuja but gave up the ghost before he could get emergency treatment. The late senator was born in 1960 and was until his death, a staunch member of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. He attended Lere Primary School in 1972 and proceeded to Government Secondary School Damaturu where he obtained his Senior Certificate before proceeding  to Bauchi College for Arts and Science in 1979. He later attended Bayero University Kano where he obtained a Bachelors degree in Arts in 1982. He also attended Nigerian Customs Training School, Lagos in 1984 and retired as controller of the Nigeria Customs Service, NCS. In the 2015 elections,  he contested for the Bauchi South senatorial seat and won under the platform of the All Progressives Congress(APC). Until his death, he had as his legislative Interests; finance, revenue, appropriation, security, works, Agriculture and Education.