Ini Dima-Okojie is a Nollywood actress and TV host who began her career in 2014.The fast-rising actress, who quit her job as an investment banker in a bid to pursue her passion, has featured in movies like ‘It’s Her Day’, ‘North East’, Royal Hibiscus  and several web series. Okojie sure knows how to put her best foot forward, fashion-wise as she is known for her versatile, chic, and sometimes adventurous style. In this chat MUTIAT ALLI, the talented actress who pays attention to details at all time led us into her acting world, fashion, challenges, ideal man amongst others. Enjoy…  What inspired you to go into acting? I have always been intrigued by the art of acting; the fact that I get to assume a character totally different from who I am, acting affords me the opportunity to live someone else’s life and experience their reality for a brief period is quite a kick. Acting is an interesting art I tell you. And what was your parent reaction on your desire to go into acting? I was initially very worried about telling my parents what I wanted to do, because I didn’t know how they would receive the news. The first person I told was my mum and she said that she would support me. My dad was also quite supportive, even though he was a bit skeptical. I later quit my job and went to the New York Film Academy to study. I came back to Nigeria in 2014 and that was how this journey began. Education background? I attended Air Force Primary School and Air Force Comprehensive School for my elementary and post-elementary education respectively. I later went to Covenant University where I studied international relations. Upon graduation, I became an investment banker. I have always been good with numbers and finance so I found myself in an investment banking firm called Cardinal Supreme Partners. I worked there for a while. Let’s talk about your recent experience with The Royal Hibiscus Hotel? It was a good experience, an awesome story well told and I got a chance to do what I love doing, alongside some of my colleagues and friends in the industry.   What excites and motivates the things you do? On a personal level, I like to stretch myself whether it is learning a new skill, language, and acquiring knowledge? I am open to new experiences. Let’s talk about some memorable moments in your life and career? A defining moment for me as a person was finding the courage to quit investing banking in 2013 and enrolling at New York Film Academy. That set the tone for my journey and everything that I am today. My defining moment as an actor was when I took on the role of Hadiza in ‘North East’. Taking on a northern character challenged me, it made me push myself, it allowed me find the balance of making bold choices but still with a subtle delivery. It also had with it lessons on culture, a different belief and a peek into the mind(s) of what happens on the other side of the divide and how as different as we are, when we come together and blur the lines on the many things that ‘divide’ us, we create a beautiful symphony in Unity. Playing Teniola Bhadmus on Battleground is also a defining moment for me. The entire filming experience is different from anything I’ve ever done. Being on a daily show, you have to rely on you first instincts, everything moves very fast, it challenges me everyday, and that’s the beauty of it What some of the challenges you have encountered? One of my biggest challenges was breaking in to the industry. You hear a lot of No’s…I was eager to share what I had and put all of the knowledge I had acquired from film school into use, I was ready to work, and here I was faced with seemingly insurmountable obstacles but that didn’t stop me. While I wasn’t working I kept working on my craft, and myself as an actor you never stop learning, you never have enough experience. How do you cope with them? When I did get an opportunity to work no matter how big or small the platform; I threw my entire being into it, I was ready and I was ready to be even more ready. As an actor in this industry and as a growing industry as a whole, we’re faced with many challenges from available platforms for content to distribution, however that resilient Nigerian spirit, keeps you going, I never took ‘No’ for an answer. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? What are some of the other things that occupy your time? My mother is the greatest influence in my life, she is instrumental to the drive that I thankfully posses. She gets me! I’m not afraid to share my dreams and aspirations with her. I remember being almost scared of telling her I wanted to veer into acting from investment banking, surprisingly she was and still is very supportive; she would make sure I was speaking to the right people, I get the right training etc. She epitomizes the strong, African woman. Till date if she sees an opportunity that will help better my craft or feels it is information I need regarding work, she will call my attention to it. Let’s compare when you started acting and now, what has changed? Let’s call it my growth process, I would say my growth process has been an interesting one, I’m constantly amazed by the characters I am offered; holding myself to a particular yardstick personally and professionally; meaning asides myself, I have mentors and a team who advise on how well or not I’m doing professionally. The characters I choose to interpret in projects I’ve taken on over the years are a testament to my growth as an actor; being able to enmesh myself and unravel the character whether as Hadiza in North East/ Skinny Girl in Transit or Melissa in Entangled or even Farida in On the Real, What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the sector? From an actor’s standpoint I will like to see more platforms and channels available to showcase and present the work thespians put in. I will like to see the necessary infrastructure in place to ensure the industry thrives. I will like to know we are operating in an enabling and not stifling environment. I will like to see things work and of course the pay can always be better but from experience, we will have to get to a point where the ecosystem aligns to accommodate all these wonderful things. Away from acting, how will you describe your personality? I am a happy-go-lucky person, but as an actor, I have my moments where I may be quite emotional. However, I’m playful and I take every day as it comes. What is your definition of style? Style is what brings out your best self! What you’re comfortable in and what makes you feel great. There are two iconic quotes from equally iconic designers that typify my thoughts on what style is; “Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they remember the woman.”– Coco Chanel and  “Fashions fade, style is eternal.” By Yves Saint Laurent What are some of the items that you treasure most in your wardrobe? Ah…that’s a tough one; there are several items that I treasure from Fablane by Derin pieces to jewelry gifts to my most comfortable slides. There is just too many to mention.  How do you relax? When I get the chance to, I like hanging out with friends and family, I love driving around listening to music and of course I catch up on some of my favourite television shows and films. What are some of the principles that you hold onto? Put God first in all you do, Never take ‘No’ for an answer and be the best in whatever you find to do. Let’s talk about the people you admire and role models? I am inspired by RMD’s consistency in the business. He is someone who has remained relevant in the industry for over three decades that is something. I admire Beyoncé’s drive. I have followed her career through the years and some of the things that stand out are her drive, her work ethics, how she constantly is pushing herself, experimenting with her music and not afraid to live her best life (smile). What is your definition of an ideal man? My ideal man must be someone that is kind, God-fearing, understanding and most importantly, someone that communicates. These are traits that stand out for me. How then do you relax when you are off work? I love watching TV series and talent shows. I’m very critical about my work and when you are watching yourself on television, all you do is closely scrutinize your work. For instance, whenever I watch Battleground, I completely forget that I’m part of the cast. Being critical of my work is the only way to improve my skills as an actor. If you had to advise young people, what would you tell them? Don’t be afraid to dream, and don’t stop at just dreaming, do everything you can to make it a reality.