The joy of experiencing mind-blowing sex, accompanied by bed-shaking, sheets-grabbing orgasms, is one some people may never have till they die. No jokes. Stories of ‘two minutes men’ are not new the society. Sadly, they are also not about to go away anytime soon, except people begin to do things differently. Just because we believe everyone deserves to have great sex and surely, orgasms, here’s the DTN list on how to last longer, performer better and deliver greater “sexperience”  and orgasms. Yes, you can thank us later. First of all, let’s tackle the issue for quick discharge. Surprisingly, there are common culprits responsible for this nightmare. Some that have been often taken for granted like: watching pornography, masturbation, having sex in just on position, psychological and hormonal issues and wait for it, switching to new sex partners. So what to do? – Kiss Like A Teenager  Remember when you were a teenager, and would make out for many hours on couch? If you actually want to know ways to last longer in bed, then begin by spending more time on kissing. Let your lips and hands explore your partner’s body. Take turns kissing and being kissed. – The Snooze Button  This technique should be saved for the very last line of defense. And it involves manually stopping your ejaculation. Despite what most guys assume, your ejaculation and orgasm are two separate physical actions. They often occur together, but they don’t have to. This technique involves pressing your perineum to stop your ejaculation, but not your orgasm. Finding Your Perineum
The perineum is located midway between your anus and your scrotum. You’ll know you have the right point when you feel it pulsate during orgasm. – Reduce sugar intake  Excessive sugar can cause diabetes and heart problem, along with persistent tiredness. If you experience tiredness regularly, then you will definitely not have the ability to last long in bed, and your endurance levels will be low. Prevent taking in excessive sugar– or rather change to a more natural option, such as honey or stevia – Take Turns  When it comes to ways to last longer in bed for men and women, the golden rule is to take turns. A lot of couples have sex in such a constant give-and-take pleasure mode. That means they touch their partner at the same time when they are touched, rushing towards the complete line together. Thus, from now, to last longer in bed, you had better take turns, then your sex will be more satisfying and last longer. To put in simple words, taking turns means being the Giver and Receiver. When being a giver, your task is to relax and receive as much as pleasure as you could. When being a receiver, your task is to lavish the partner with pleasure. You should learn proper ways to use the hands to please your partner and take him/her on the journey of arousal. – Start-Stop Technique  With this technique, as a man, you will have your woman stimulate till you feel nearing orgasm, and then ask her to immediately stop. Once your sexual tension stops, even within just 15 seconds, then have her to continue. By this way, you will be able to last longer in bed. – Drink Water  The first thing you must do is guarantee you take in sufficient water every day. Hydration plays a crucial function in many parts of the body. It can enhance your physical and psychological efficiency, and correct hydration avoids tiredness. Dehydration can likewise decrease your testosterone levels, which reduces your libido and has an unfavourable influence on your endurance Your sexual well-being goes hand in hand with your overall mental, physical, and emotional health. Sex is a pleasurable activity that can become more pleasurable depending on the connection of the people participating in the act, with these 6 exhilarating tricks we hope you are on your way to having the sex of your life Any other tips? Leave them in the comments–but tastefully, please 