My power look is my smile-Korede BelloEating healthy is part of what makes me keep fit-Korede Bello
Korede Bello is a young Nigerian Artiste signed into Mavin record. He has released singles like African Princess, Cold Outside amongst others. He is a talented Youngman who should be looked out for in the industry. In this celebrity style, he speaks with MUTIAT ALLI on his styling  What makes you feel glamorous? 
For the fact that I know that people out there lookout for me, people that loves me genuinely (My fans) they are the ones that makes me feel glamorous and the fact that I know that God loves me.
Do you have a signature scent? 
I like different scent, I try different stuffs.
How do you keep fit? 
I jogg sometimes, I do pushups early in the morning, I walk (taking a stroll) and I try to eat healthy all the time
Do you have a tip for body confidence? Looking good, dressing well. Whenever you dress good, you feel good about yourself. Wear clean underwear as well so you don’t ooze out in public. Feel comfortable internally. The reason people don’t look good is because they have problems to solve, bills to pay etc
what kind of diet suits you? 
Plantain with anything. I try to eat light, I take fruits
Tea or Coffee? 
It depends on my mood
Do you take vitamins? 
Yes of course
How do you relax? 
I sleep, I interact with my friends, and playing soccer with Jazzy and Reakado Banks
What self-help books have inspired you? 
The Holy book
Designers outfit you love to wear? 
I wear what looks good, what fits me. I have personal designers like Rotimi Jegede and some others
Favourite colour? 
Purple and blue
Best fashion accessories? 
I love to wear rings
What is casual dressing to you? 
Feeling comfortable in what you are wearing, feeling relaxed without anybody checking if you are properly dressed or not
What would you consider as your powerlook? 
My smile
Which male figure would you love to raid his wardrobe? 
Alot of people even if it’s not my size. Chris Brown, Justin Bierber I just want to see what’s in his wardrobe not that I want to wear it, Jazzy is my boss but I’ll like to raid his wardrobe as well as his staff
Would you like to have a tatoo? 
No