A first date is like a stepping stone to creating a solid relationship or friendship as the case may be, most guys settle for some variation of seeing a film and going for a meal. There’s nothing particularly wrong with this strategy. It’s been tested and it’s easy.  But some guys like to go out of the norm to create a good first impression and they don’t want to be just another dude. You want to be so amazingly fun and memorable that your date can’t wait to see you again. So to give you the very best opportunity to shine, we’ve assembled this list of fabulous first date ideas to help you get out of the dinner-and-a-movie rut.  A good first date allows for conversation but at the same time takes some of the focus off you so that you’re not under pressure to talk incessantly. The first date ideas on this list provide the right balance of conversation and pleasant distraction. And that’s not forgetting that dating should, above all, be fun. And a great way to keep all those plates spinning is by doing some sort of activity together.  Just recognize that not every first date idea will work for every type of girl or boy. Before you plan anything, make sure you know the type of person he or she is so as to ensure the comfort of your date and you don’t want to take someone to a museum if it’s about something that will make them bored to tears. Think about their interests and their personality before you decide which of these 10 first date ideas to try, and get ready to have a great time together.  Bowling Bowling is something fun you can try on a first date, it is interesting and refreshing. The two of you can have a beer or share some fries while engaging in a friendly competition. A hearty amount of guaranteed background noise to your date means there’s less pressure for either of you to have to think of a couple of hours’ worth of non-stop interesting things to say, like a candle-lit dinner would. It’s a low-stress environment, so your date will feel relaxed and comfortable, which is important. The Palms Shopping Mall in Lagos has a bowling center and it is a perfect spot for a first date.  Walking  Exploring the great outdoors and getting some physical activity is a terrific first date idea, though it’s not for everyone. Find out how comfortable your date is with doing some outdoors activity, and find a route accordingly, whether they’re super-active and up for a hike, or would prefer a casual summer stroll through picturesque fields or have some peace and quiet on the beach. If you don’t know their fitness level, keep on the side of caution and choose a route that’s not too strenuous. The great thing about this date is that it is a perfect conversation opportunity, giving you quiet, private space to get to know each other. And thankfully costs nothing, avoiding any bill-splitting debates.  Brunch  Dining together is tried-and-tested, enjoyable way to get to know someone new. For a first date though, why not suggest brunch instead of dinner? A weekend brunch has a much more casual, easygoing vibe, means you’ve still got the rest of the day ahead of you afterwards, and can go on for as long as you want it to, depending on how much chemistry it turns out you have together.   Attend a Sports Event Taking a date to go and see a sports event falls under the same category as going to a gig together — it provides the perfect opportunity to chat in a casual setting and get to know each other, but with enough distraction that you don’t have to think of things to say to fill hours of silence. With a buzzy atmosphere, you can cheer on the same team, grab a beer and snack together and, hopefully, get a caught up in the fun of it all. One caveat though: make sure she’s not totally bored by the sport. And that you aren’t too passionate about the particular game. You getting angry at the players then weeping softly at the final whistle is not likely to secure a second date.  Picnic  Going to a park with a blanket, fruits, wine and good music is very economical. This gives you opportunity to have great conversation and help you know each other more. Having a picnic might seem stressful but with great planning and a perfect location, you will be having a perfect first date.