…. Impounds 16 exotic vehicles, arrest five suspects Men of the Nigerian Customs Service, Federal Operations Unit Zone A, have intercepted 7,201 bags of parboiled rice,16 exotic vehicles and other items with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of over N2.557 Billion. The Customs Controller of the Zone, Comptroller Mohammed Uba, who made the disclosure during the monthly briefing at the headquarters in Ikeja, said some of the bags of rice were neatly concealed in-between empty crates in a Nigerian Breweries truck.  Uba revealed further saying the bags of rice which were intercepted at different areas in Iseyin, Oyo/Osun axis, a warehouse in Ogbomosho and Lagos were seized based on credible Intelligence. It was learnt that although the driver of the Nigerian Breweries truck had fled on sighting the Customs personnel, five suspects had been arrested by the FOU for the various seizures. Speaking further on the seizures made between March 1 and March 19, the Controller said six of the detained vehicles were evacuated from a car shop along Lekki/Epe Expressway, while the other 10 vehicles were intercepted while on information patrol at various locations. According to Uba, “After an intensive onslaught on dare devil smugglers, deploying our tactical operational modalities, we have intercepted 16 exotic vehicles mostly 2017 model, 7,201 bags of foreign parboiled rice (12 trailers), 1,172 cartons of frozen poultry products, 1,352 jerry cans of vegetable oil. “Also 72 bales of used clothing, 464 pieces of used tyres, 407 sacks of Pangolin scales and 629 pieces of textiles Ankara material among others were also intercepted. ” You will recall that the ban on the importation of foreign rice through the land was to encourage efficiency in local production.  Therefore, the need to support the Federal Government’s Policy on rice, encourage local rice farmers, the millers and patronize our own nutritional rice cannot be over emphasized. ” Some of the impounded vehicles were said to include – two Lexus Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) (RS350 2016, 2017), one Rolls Royce, one Lincoln Limousine (2014), three Toyota Camry (2009, 2013 and 2017 models), one Toyota Rav 4, one Toyota Avalon (2016), one Toyota Tundra, one Dodge among others –  were impounded due to lack of Customs documents and violation of procedures. “The 16 exotic vehicles alone have a DPV of over N340 million. The vehicles are still under detention pending the grace period allowed for the owners to bring relevant Customs document.” He also called on organisations who use trucks to deliver services to always ascertain the credibility of those they employ as drivers, in order to avoid recruiting persons with criminal intents and ultimately implicating such organisations. Commenting on the letter of commendation from the Comptroller General of Customs (CGC), Col.  Hameed Ali (Rtd), Uba said he is determined to do more. ” Let me still use this opportunity to thank the CGC and the entire management team of the Nigeria Customs Service, for appreciating us with a commendation letter and providing necessary logistics that brought about this feat. ” We are very determined to ensure sustenance of this laudable sterling performance by making sure we give economic Saboteurs a run for their money.”