….Suspects allegedly robbed residents, injured many
What could have passed as an ordinary initiation ceremony into a newly formed secret confraternity named ‘The New Black Movement of Africa’ turned sour on Thursday after a recruit who could not take the torture of the initiation absconded. The recruit (names withheld) alongside many others had been taken to a hideout in Ajah to be initiated to the new confraternity which is a break away from the Aiye cult group. The Daily Times gathered that the recruit had absconded just after the initiation process had started at about 12:10 am on the said day. Eleven members of confraternity were sent after the youngster who fled to his mother’s house at Jakande Estate , Ajah Lagos. The alleged cultists had attacked the boy and his family but for the swift intervention of the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ilasan division, CSP Onyinye Onwuamaegbu who led a contingent of policemen to the estate and arrested 11 members of the group. The suspects with an average age of 25 years include- Godwin Victor, Benjamin Daniel, Saviour Anioffiong, Lawal Ibrahim, Shola Odekunle, Sodiq Olawuyi, Segun Fagbohun, Bashiru Lawal, Chinedu Francis, Wahab Adams and Ifarinde Adeniyi. They have also confessed to the crime. According to the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Mr Imohimi Edgal, who confirmed the incident, parents and guardians need to educate their children on the many disadvantages of cultism. Giving more details on how the suspects were arrested, Edgal said, “ The recruits in question couldn’t endure the torture and other initiation rites he was subjected to, so he bolted for his dear life and ran to his mother’s house at Jakande Estate, Ajah Lagos. “ Miffed by the apparent show of cowardice by the intending recruit and the fact that he may give them up to the police, the group chased him to his mother’s residence and began to beat up everybody in sight, at same time, robbing residents of the estate who were woken up by their noise. “ Unfortunately for the group, the mother of the runaway boy, sneaked out of the house and placed a distress call to the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ilasan division, CSP Onyinye Onwuamaegbu who led a contingent of policemen to the estate and arrested 11 members of the group, all males.” The police team also recovered the one locally made shotgun, four live cartridges, three cutlasses, one sledge hammer, 10 horse whips and assorted charms from the suspects. In a related development, the State Police Boss also hinted that two notorious cultists – Rasheed Yusuf (aka Radical) and Abel Okwo – were arrested during a supremacy battle between the Aiye and Eiye confraternities at Akerele street, Oworonshoki. Preliminary investigations revealed that Okwo had been charged to court two months ago by the Command for cult related offences only to come back to terrorise the town the more. The Commissioner of Police therefore vowed that the Command will not relent in its efforts at ridding the state of members of these unlawful societies. While thanking Lagosians for always providing the Command with information about the activities of these outlaws and solicited for more cooperation, Edgal said, “ I call on parents to hold heart to heart talks with their children, male and female alike, on the evil consequences of belonging to cult groups.”