MUTIAT, Alli The two-day event, turned Idogo and neighboring communities into a melting pot, as both the old and young thronged to benefit from the free healthcare scheme at the popular Idogo Community town hall. According to Obey, the programme was part of the activities lined up to celebrate the Seventh year remembrance of his late wife, Pastor (Mrs.) Juliana Olaide Obey-Fabiyi, as various health problems were met, as well as the spiritual lives of people were reawakened, as there was for counseling and prayers section. Obey shed light on the project thus: “The healthcare and spiritual care are both what man needs here on earth. People would go astray if the spiritual aspect of life is not taken care of and anytime man is doing what he is not supposed to do, he cannot be a happy person. So, the spiritual aspect is very important and we thank God that we are able to balance that through the initiative. The turnout has made it clear that the care that people need matters lot. I thank God and also appreciate the Relume Foundation from the United States, anchored by both Dr and Professor Adeosun, in conjunction with the Ebenezer Obey Evangelistic Ministry and the Household of God Church of the Reverend Christe Okotie, in making this a reality. The president of the foundation, Professor Sherri Adeosun told DailyTimes that the vision of the foundation in collaboration with the Household of God and the Ebenezer Obey Evangelistic Ministries was to impact the lives of the needy and provide free healthcare services for the rural people. Chairman of the foundation, Dr Sunday Adeosun, restated that the programme was designed to take care of people medically, physically and spiritually. He reassured: “The foundation will is committed to spread this initiative across Nigeria and other African countries. We want to thank everyone that is supporting this dream from onset. We also want to acknowledge the support of the medical experts and clerics that made this programme a success. I am happy to give back to my source. Though the challenges are there, we show the government how to best serve our people. This is why we are embarking on this. We also have the support of the Yewa South Local Government,” he added. Onidogo of Idogo, Oba Saheed Adebiyi thanked Obey for his various contributions to the growth and development of the community. The monarch added: “We are sincerely grateful for the kind gesture and we are confident that it will be of great benefit to us all. The good health and spiritual life of people is very important and that is what the organisers have addressed. I want to use this opportunity to charge all other well-meaning Nigerians, especially indigenes of this town to take a cue from this initiative in order to have a total developmental growth in Idogo and Ogun State at large.”