…Says his people, deprived of FG presence
Benue State zone C Senatorial aspirant, Mr. Daniel Onjeh has picked the nomination and expression of interest form to represent his Senatorial zone in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the 2019 general election. The Board Chairman of Project Development Institute (PRODA) and Senatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) platform said he is in the contest to redeem his people who had been subjugated for long without the presence of the Federal Government. He stated this while speaking with newsmen after obtaining the APC Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms to contest the Benue South Senatorial district election in 2019. In the same contest is the immediate past Deputy Governor of Benue State, Chief Stephen Lawani and Chief Mike Okibe Onoja, a former permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Defense will be slugging out with the immediate past Minister of Interior, Comrade Abba Moro of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Onjeh, a former President of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Contested against Senator David Mark in 2015, who later went to the election tribunal where the court ordered a re-run election in 2016. In the February 20, 2016, re-run election, Onje pulled 71,621 votes while his opponent got 84,192 votes. The former President of the Senate had obtained the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP)’s Expression of Interest and Nomination forms to contest the president of the Federal Republic in the 2019 election. Onjeh stressed that President Muhammadu Buhari had proven mettle and had done exceedingly well in the key areas of our National affairs adding that President Muhammadu Buhari had proved his capacity to resolve the cause of the country’s underdevelopment, and that the Benue South people would vote for him en masse come 2019. He alleged that Benue South had been completely disconnected from the Federal Government and lacked democracy dividends stating that he was in the race again because the issues which warranted his earlier aspiration in 2011 were still lingering and unresolved. “A cursory and comparative look at the Benue South Senatorial zone, makes it safe for one to conclude that our people are the most deprived, and our district the most underdeveloped in Nigeria, in spite of the humongous constituency funds allocated to the zone in the last 19 years, existing without a voice since Nigeria’s return to democracy in 1999”, he said. According to him, the people of his senatorial district lacked effective representation in the Senate. “I aspire to effectively represent my people at the red chamber, to carry the silenced voice of the vast majority of the Benue South people to the National level”, he said. ·