ISSAC, Oguntoye Lukman Mustapha who was addressing newsmen in Ilorin, bemoaned the undevelopmental pattern Kwara’s electioneering process is taking, emphasizing that while aspirants in other climes are sectorally dissecting societal ills and proffering solutions, we’re engrossed with politics of blackmail and mudslinging, stressing that we need to redirect our focus to how to attain a viable and competitive State through massive investment in small and medium scale enterprises, massive investment in infrastructure, youth education and engagement among others. He said “My hereafter determines my actions and inactions on every seconds, if I’ll govern Kwara and loss my Jannah, then may I not get there. “My journey to Rebirth Kwara started during my undergraduate days, I have always believed Kwara and Kwarans deserves better”, “I have been fighting to get better deal for Kwara and Kwarans even before the present dramatis personae ever knew about politicking in the State. “I have never benefited a kobo in cash or patronage from any Government in Kwara since my adulthood till date, it’s an insult to insinuate I am a front for those that are responsible for our present predicament. “It is an insult on my person, achievements, career attainment and exposure to be termed a stooge and tool in the hands of our collective tormentors. I will be an ingrate to my creator after all unmerited blessings God has showered me with to now serve as a destabilizing factor towards the attainment of a Kwara we all can be proud of. My offsprings will never forgive me if I do such condemnable, barbaric and animalistic act. ” When I threw my hat into the Guber race last year, I was warned about the kind of attacks and blackmail that’ll trail my person, I however waved it aside knowing that nothing is too big a sacrifice including personal comfort towards changing the sardonic narratives of Kwara and Kwarans. No sacrifice is too much to ensure we leave Kwara better than we met it” he stressed. He however enjoined the rumour mongers to endeavor to engage in productive and developmental discuss, adding that no amount of blackmail or name calling will make him jettison the fight to get a better deal for Kwara and Kwarans.