…Explains why Insecurity is rampant in N/E
Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the immediate past Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ibrahim Jalo Dasuki has picked the nomination and expression of interest forms for the governorship race in Gombe State attributing non-engagement of the teeming youths population in the northern part of the country in business activities to incessant insecurity challenges confronting the region. Dasuki, who spoke with journalists at the National Secretariat of the party after he obtained his required forms, indicating his interest to contest the governorship seat disclosing why high maternal mortality rate is in geometric rate in the State said: “I want to equally say that we have to farm round the year not seasonals because if you farm for four months and wait for eight months doing nothing, of course, you will be poor. These are the things bringing insecurity particularly in my zone (North East); many people are not engaged in economic activities or businesses. So, we have to do something so as to ensure our people are better in terms of generating income,” he said. Insecurity, which has been linked to the activities of Boko Haram terrorists in the North East, is prevalent in States like Borno, Yobe, Adamawa and Gombe. Recall that the Boko Haram terrorists recently staged a fresh attack on a Military base in Baga in the Kukawa Local Government Area of Borno State, a day after they invaded Gudumbali area in the Guzamala Local Government Area and sacked the residents. The Nigerian Army, confirmed the terror attack on Gudumbali said its combined troops of 82 Division Task Force Brigade and 158 Task Force Battalion repelled the attack and were restoring normalcy in the area. However, the Governorship aspirant stressed that the insecurity challenges in the zone can be curbed if teeming youths are properly engaged, adding that there are many potentials in youths if it can be brought out through sound education policy. Speaking on the present Governor of Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo on his style of governance in the State, Dasuki said it is not in his character to be criticizing people, noting that he will definitely change attitude this attitude generally. “Actually it depends on someone’s nature and upbringing. You know they say empty vessels make the loudest noise. I would like to say, people will begin to see the difference. “Part of the things I intend to do for my people includes education which I will give more attention; I want to give education priority because everybody know that when you educate the people, you have given them freedom. When I was Local government Chairman, I was able to construct so many classrooms and also established new schools. So, education, especially primary education is not new to me, I know the requirements and what we need to do, to enhance or improve what we have to do. I will also give great attention to health care sector which is also important. “I will also give attention to improve the economic situation of my place. Those that know, Gombe State, it is the economic centre of the North-East because being the state that is in the middle, it’s kind of a centre for so many trading activities. This is important because as it is now, Nigeria depends on oil and we cannot continue to live with this, especially most of us in the North – East because we have to have our ways to have the direct income for our state; that is the only way we will be able to sustain ourselves for a long time”, he said. The aspirant maintained that he improve on agriculture the people are known for agriculture, particularly in the North adding, “Most of our people engage in peasant farming, how do we improve from traditional way of producing crops; we have to devise a means to ensure that we improve the traditional system, so, our yield can improve”. ·