ISAAC, Oguntoye Recent reports have shown a rise in child sexual abuse with 1 in 4 girls, as well as 1 in 10 boys experiencing before they reach the age of 18. The Cece Yara Foundation has been the light at the end of the tunnel for sexual abuse cases – fighting for the rights of children, non-offending families as well as amplifying societal prevention awareness via field and media initiatives. Being the first of its kind in Nigeria, the online portal will serve as a vital information hub for individuals or organisations seeking child protection services offered by the police, medical practitioners, mental health care providers, legal advocates, shelter providers and other credible child focused organisations in the country. Mrs. Bola Tinubu, the Founder Trustee of the Foundation stated that “We were committed to building the most complete and accurate database of Child Protection Service Providers in Nigeria from Day One and it has taken a lot of hard work, and research hours to verify all entries. This Directory will go a long way to support speedy reporting and response to child sexual abuse and other cases of abuse. This portal will be regularly updated by a team of dedicated data volunteers.” On the functionality of the directory, the Foundation’s Research and  Data Analyst, who also is the brain behind the design and development  of the directory, Mr. David Adeleke said, “The web directory is  user-friendly, and with the understanding that majority of the  end-users will be accessing these services from their mobile devices,  the directory offers maximum compatibility with mobile devices”. It is important to know that the impact of child sexual abuse can be profound and last a lifetime. However, easy access to help will drastically reduce the risk factors and promote protective factors that will ensure the well-being of children and families. The directory can be accessed on the Foundations website (www.ceceyara.org) and currently has close to 200 listings of child specific service providers in Lagos state. It is being expanded daily and will eventually serve other states of the federation. Listings can be filtered by Local Government Area, service categories and keywords.  Phone can be dialed automatically from the web page, while addresses can also be searched using Google Maps.