…Reiterates commitment to actualize restoration agenda
Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani-Bello on Thursday reinforced his bid for second term by inaugurating a 14-man state campaign committee for the 2019 governorship election in the state on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). He charged the committee to work as a team and ensure effective liaison with the zonal and local government campaign committees in order to achieve victory for his 2019 governorship aspiration. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Jibrin Baba Ndace, he said the Governor reiterated commitment to actualize the restoration agenda which is designed to reposition the state, lift the social, economic and political statues of Nigerlites. Addressing the committee shortly after inauguration in Minna, the state capital, the governor urged them to bring to bear their wealth of experience in ensuring effective and efficient coordination of the campaigns at all levels in the state for delivery of the desired result. “The major task of this committee is to ensure team work, seamless networking and effective collaboration with zonal and local government campaign committees in order to achieve success at the party primaries and the general elections come 2019,” the governor charged the committee. The committee is headed by Mal. Yusuf Suleiman, who was the director of publicity of the 2014 campaign committee and Alhaji Abdullahi Arah, Director General, Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) is to serve as the Secretary. Also on the committee were the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Hon. Mikail Al-Amin Bmitosahi; Secretary to the State Government, Hon. Ibrahim Isah Ladan; Commissioner for Works, Ibrahim Balarabe; Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Ramatu Moh’d Yar’adua; Chief Political Adviser to the Governor, Mr. Solomon Nyanze and former Commissioner for Water Resources, Idris Azozo. Others are one time Commissioner for Investment, Hon. Yakoi Kango; Mr. John Sani, Umar Alkali, Aliyu Tumaka, Aisha Usman and Sa’adatu Bokane.