…No victory until Leah Sharibu, other abductees are free – Odumakin
 …Nigerian state incapable of protecting citizens – JAF
Understandably, rapturous enthusiasm greeted the news of the release of Dapchi schoolgirls by their abductors. For their families, it was an answer to days of fasting and prayers. Grief gave way to gaiety. Indescribable joy sacked sorrow. But the feelings were only momentary for Nathan Sharibu, father of Leah Sharibu – the Christian Dapchi schoolgirl that was not released because she reportedly failed to wear the Hijab and change his faith – and other parents and relatives of the five children that have reportedly been snatched by death out of the 110 girls taken away. According to Sharibu, he was elated and had looked forward to seeing his daughter again when news broke that abducted Dapchi schoolgirls had been released, but his joy took flight on realising that Leah was not released. A distraught Nathan didn’t hide his sadness and pain when he said, “ It is a sad Easter without my daughter.’’ Despite assurances from the presidency that Leah would be found and reunited with his family soon, Nathan remains locked in the prison of hope and pain, sharing kinship with other prisoners of hope whose children have remained missing when Boko Haram terrorists stole over 200 schoolgirls on April 14, 2014. In a matter of days, it will be exactly four years since Chibok girls were abducted. Though some have regained freedom, the tears of parents of scores of children still held by Boko Haram sect have not dried. A parent of one the girls abducted four years ago, for example, who spoke in confidence with Aljazera, said rest would continue to elude her until she is informed that her daughter is dead or found. Her words: “Tell the government to do all it can to ensure my girl comes back home. Everyday I cry but I still have hope that my daughter will return.’’ We are all endangered species”. Meanwhile, Deputy Chairman of Joint Action Front (JAF) and Public Affairs commentator, Achike Chude, has warned that no one is insulated from the attacks of insurgents if some Nigerians can be abducted and killed. Achike said injustice in a place is injustice everywhere. The JAF Deputy Chairman added that no one can claim to be safe in a country where children are abducted and where lives of families are terminated abruptly. He said, “We all belong to one humanity. There are certain things that should touch everybody. Every act of violence, injustice that is visited on a human being is something that should touch everyone. If it can happen in one part of this country, it can happen to other parts of this country. If it can happen to a family, it can happen to other families. So what it means is that nobody is safe in this country. It is embarrassing that after 58 years of independence, we have descended this low. Beyond that, as a father, it makes you to begin to question the basis of your citizenship.’’ Achike berated the Federal Government for failing in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property. He said it was crying shame that the nation witnessed another abduction of schoolgirls in Dapchi at a time it was almost four years that over 200 girls were abducted in Chibok under similar circumstances. The rights activist said it is a shouting evidence that the Nigerian state cannot protect its citizens. He said, “If , as a citizen you are fulfilling your duties, you are law abiding, you pay your taxes, there is need for the state to do its part. To provide for the welfare of citizens and protecting citizens. And obviously, the Nigerian state has failed to secure the lives of the people of this country, and that is a shame. Going to four years now when Chibok girls incident happened, we are thinking that we have put that type of terrible tragedy behind us, only for it to happen again under similar circumstances. So it simply tells you that the Nigerian state as constituted today is incapable of protecting the citizens. Just a few days ago, it was reported that about 17 people were killed in a bank robbery in Offa in Kwara State. “So what kind of country are we living in? A country where people are constantly living under fear is not a country to be proud of.” On the planned amnesty for Boko Haram insurgents by the Federal Government, Achike had this to say: “ We cannot accept that a few people who carry guns in this country are free to do what they like at will. They cause pain. Cause destruction of lives and property and go away scot-free. It is in this vein that I condemn in the strongest terms the attempt by the Federal Government to grant amnesty to a group of murderers who have shown complete disdain for the Nigerian state and contempt for the people of this country. “How would you explain to the dead? How would you explain to children who were ripped from their mothers’ womb that the
government without any basis decided to grant these people amnesty? It means that any group can carry arms whenever they want and lay siege on the Nigerian state because they know they will get away with it.’’ In her own opinion, President of Women Arise, Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, said victory cannot be declared against the deadly insurgents of the North East until Leah Sharibu, over 100 abducted Chibok girls and other women and children still being held by Boko Haram elements are free. Odumakin told The Daily Times that, “It will be a sad reminder to us that for four years, our nation has been unable to completely rescue the abducted Chibok girls, leaving over a hundred of them still being held in captivity by Boko Haram. While battling with the terrible memories that the Chibok abduction has imposed on the parents, community and every Nigerian, who have spent the last four years demanding the rescue of the Chibok girls, another callous attack, very similar to the 2014 abduction, emerged.’’ She, however, commended the Federal Government for its responsiveness when Dapchi school girls were abducted, but insisted that Leah Sharibu must be released from the grip of her abductors. Hear her: “While I want to specially commend the responsiveness of the Federal Government, towards ensuring that the recently abducted Dapchi School girls were rescued, we cannot but quickly remind ourselves that one of the girls, Leah Sharibu, is still being held by the abductors, thereby undermining the efforts put into ensuring the safe return of the girls. This particular scenario, also reinforces the tendency of the Boko Haram elements to continue scaring away our children, particularly the girls in the northern part of the country, from showing interest and
accessing basic education.’’ Odumakin said the attack on schools by insurgents was a calculated attempt to restrict access to education in the northern part of Nigeria. She said: “As we speak, we are already seeing the direct consequence of these attacks on schools , going by the number of children being enrolled for the Common Entrance Examination into secondary schools. We have seen as low as 28,30 and 50 in a whole state. “This cannot just be described as an embarrassment to us as a nation, but also, it is an attack on our future, and the road to our development. “Only a generation that is educated can build a society, and with the current trend, every patriotic Nigerian must be worried as to the real intent and purposes of these attacks on our schools.’’ But counter terrorism and organised crime expert, Mr. Sadeeq Shehu, suggested that there is need for President Muhammadu to reshuffle his cabinet. He said: “PMB must change his cabinet and advisers, some of whom are clearly incompetent. But the problem is that PMB has left it a bit too late with election less than a year, changing the cabinet now will affect his chances so he will probably only change them if several leave. As for the military, there is need for shake up but PMB was advised “not to change a winning team”. On the roles schools can play to ensure that schools are safe for pupils, the former Director at the Nigerian Air Force had this to say: “Schools can play a role by providing basic security and safety awareness training for children and staff, having in place emergency procedures protocols. This may not in itself stop abduction, mind you, but reduce the effect if it happens and people wouldn’t be completely helpless and confused. I have some training on safe schools.’’