Making money in this part of the world requires more than wishful thinking, you need to be intentional about making it happen. It is rather unfortunate that the  education system does not allocate room for talent identification, development and skill acquisition. Where there is no availability of profitable white collar jobs, one has to make good use of a skill to survive. Learning a skill is one of the most reliable means of income in today’s world economy. If you have any quality service you can render to people, you’re sure to be making regular income all year round, as long as you are able to provide value for the services offered  Daily Times presents 7 profitable skills you can learn in no time:  1. Learn how to play the keyboard Music is great for your mood and you can actually make money with it. So why not learn an instrument? You can get decently priced used instruments online, and learn from YouTube lessons, pay a tutor or learn one or two cheap introductory books. And if you get good enough, it’s a great way to start playing for churches and mouth-watering money or be a music producer  2. Learn a New Language. Learning a new language is a great way to pad your résumé and not as hard to learn as many people think.  Not sure what to learn? Spanish, Mandarin Chinese and Arabic are projected to be economically useful. Try French or Italian to gain access to schools where you get to teach students or double as a private tutor  There is an endless demand for food all over the world; I do not believe there can be too many food handlers or vendors because all human beings irrespective of their social strata must eat to survive and not every meal can be prepared at home. I know excellent fine dining restaurants that are owned by people who have obtained degrees in non-food related fields. Many young Nigerians have acquired training as chefs and have been able to build popular and successful food brands that have earned them both money and fame, some of them operate from the comforts of their home with the help of social media and the internet. There are many caterers, bakers and their likes who make good money by running their brands online. Food service is an in demand vocational skill that enjoys a healthy outlook that keeps growing steadily. Anyone with food service skills must definitely find a job  4. Graphic Design Graphic design is the art or skill of combining text and pictures in advertisements, magazines, or books. This means people need graphic designers to for every single event they want to host. They need graphic designers to design their wedding invitations, their birthday invitations and even obituaries. It does not stop there. Graphic designers are sought after even in the corporate world. They are needed for company logos, complimentary cards, calendars, book covers and even advertisement and billboards. Graphic designers don’t only work for individuals, they work for big corporations too, like Banks and companies. They even handle online branding for companies by designing the billboards and their posters. All of this implies that at the end of the day a graphic designer goes home with a fat cheque. So how do you learn this skill? Go on YouTube and find Photoshop/Corel Draw tutorials. Graphic design is indeed one of the most lucrative skills in Nigeria.  This involves the creation of durable and beautiful images by use of an image sensor or other related materials. Most people love to create and keep memories by taking photos while others communicate their stories to the world by photos. There is a good market and demand for photographers in Nigeria with weddings as the largest market. One will be amazed at the costs of making photos and videos at weddings and other events. There are many budding photographers showcasing their talents on the internet. Lagos state seems to be the home of photography because you will find many training schools here as well as many job opportunities.  6. Phone/Latop Repair – Nearly 100Million Nigerians have GSM phones and laptops and these gadgets need constant servicing. To learn phow repair, you need about two months or less. People in the trade confirmed that the work isn’t that difficult, that one can learn it even using phone manuals. The cheapest repair you do on your phone will cost you nothing less than N1,000, and you are guaranteed of plenty customers on daily basis if you’re good at your work.