Residents of Benue state have been thrown into mourning again, following the invasion of another church by suspected herdsmen. A source said that seven persons were killed in the incident which happened two days after two priests and 17 church members were shot dead at a Catholic Church in Gwer west local government area of the state. The fresh attack took place at a church and a primary school in Logo local government area (LGA) of the state on Thursday morning. Richard Nyajo, chairman of Logo local government, told journalists that herdsmen were responsible for the attack. He said they invaded three villages in Mbamondo clan in early hours of the day, opening fire on people who were asleep in the church and school. Nyajo said the victims were taking refuge at the church following displacement from their communities. He said seven dead bodies had already been recovered from the attack which started from Mondo settlement village in the LGA. On Wednesday, 22 persons were reportedly killed in Guma local government area of Benue. The killings in the state have continued despite the efforts of government to find a lasting solution. The military had introduced operation cat race to check the violence in Benue and other north-central states but the situation has not been brought under control. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) called for nationwide protest over the killings in Benue. In a statement by Adebayo Oladeji, the special assistant on media and communication to the CAN President, Samson Ayokunle, the association said the high rate of killings in the country is slowly turning Nigeria into a state of anomie. The statement said the protest will be aimed at canvassing government’s increased commitment towards the release of abducted Dapchi student, Leah Sharibu, Chibok girls as well as other innocent Nigerians held captive by the Boko Haram group. “CAN urges Christians in Nigeria to hold peaceful protest on the set aside date, in the premises of their churches asking the federal government and the security agencies to stop the unending killings and bloodshed in the country,” the statement read. “Christians are to carry placards with inscriptions meant to address issues about sustained killings, attacks and destruction of their property in Nigeria. The inscriptions on placards could read, ‘Enough of bloodshed in Nigeria’, ‘Enough of unlawful killings in the country’, ‘FG, Release Leah Sharibu from the bondage’, ‘FG, Stop Herdsmen Killings’, ‘CAN rejects FG’s poor handling of insecurity’, etc. “It also dedicates same day for prayers for the freedom and liberty of Leah Sharibu, the remaining Chibok Girls and others still in captivity of the Boko Haram terrorists. We are already at a breaking point and a state of anomie is almost here.” According to the statement, the killings have only persisted because of what the association describes as government’s inability to effectively arrest the situation. “CAN notes that the failure of the government to raise an effective campaign against the killings by herdsmen is the reason they have continued to kill, while there is no visible plan to pacify the aggrieved,” the statement read. “The Association also calls on the heads of the security agencies to wake up to their constitutional role of protecting lives and property across the federation while preventing Nigeria from descending into chaos and a lawless country.” ….Labour Party baffled, worried over Govt inaction Tom Okpe, Abuja The Labor party has expressed its worries and concern over government’s inaction especially law enforcement agencies on the incessant killings in the country.

The party also commiserates with the Catholic Church and the Government of Benue state over the murder of two Rev. Fathers, Catechist and 14 members of the church in an early morning mass recently at Ayer, Mbalom Gwer Local Government of Benue State. In a press statement signed on Thursday by the National Chairman of the party, Alhaji Abdulkadir Abdulsalam said: “We are baffled and worried over inaction of Government, especially Law Enforcement Agencies aimed at abating the carnage of Nigerians across the Nation. Labor Party commiserates with the Catholic Church, the people and Government of Benue State over the slaughter of two Reverend Fathers, a Catechist and 14 others”. According to the party, “The number of killings reported daily in the media can only happen in a country where there is complete breakdown of law and order or where there is no government. We hereby remind Mr. President, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces that the principal purpose of Government is to protect lives and properties”. Abdulsalam said that a time will come when citizens will rise to defend themselves by taking up Arms since they are not protected by the state calling on the Federal Government to evolve proactive and pragmatic measures to abate the killings advising that Government should confront poverty, Hunger and unemployment since they are bye product of violent crimes and criminality. “Consequently; we enjoined Government to evolve a pragmatic and proactive approach to the killings: it is however our belief that Government must confront the issues of hunger, poverty and unemployment as they are bye product of violent crimes and criminality”, he said.