….Says President Buhari should apologize for comments against youths
The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank, has declared his intention to contest the National Chairmanship of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming National Convention. Frank also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to apologize to Nigerian youths over his comments that the country’s young population is lazy but wanted free things. The APC chieftain believe that the government has not given the youth opportunity to serve, hence no need to de-market them at an international event like the Commonwealth Business Forum. The Bayelsa born politician, however, said as a young man he will be contesting the National Chairmanship seat of his party, the APC in the forthcoming national convention, to prove that Nigerian youths are ready if given opportunity. President Buhari, while addressing the forum in Westminster on Wednesday, was quoted to have said “More than 60 percent of the population is below 30, a lot of them haven’t been to school and they are claiming that Nigeria is an oil producing country, therefore, they should sit and do nothing, and get housing, healthcare, education free”. But reacting to the comment in a statement on Thursday in Abuja, Frank reminded the President that more than 20 young Nigerians lost their lives in 2014 in search for employment in Nigerian Immigration Service. The APC chieftain who said that the country has the best brains in the world, added that Nigerian leaders have refused to create enabling environment for the young population to excel. “If Nigerian youths are lazy you won’t find them all over the world seeking for greener pastures. Again, we have so many Nigerian young entrepreneurs who are doing well all over without support from the government. “So I disagree with Mr. President on this particular comment. Nigerian youths are hard working; we have best brains in entertainment industry, Sports, Medical, to mention a few, and I think they deserve an apology”. While declaring his intention to contest the office of the National Chairman of the ruling APC in the forthcoming national convention, Frank urged the President to support him as a young man so as to prove to the world that that Nigerian youths are not lazy. “I would like to inform Mr. President that if I’m given opportunity to serve within the rank of APC as National Chairman, I have the capacity to do better than the current National Chairman. “This is one of the reasons I have offered myself to serve my country in this capacity for now. I will, hereby solicit for your support by giving the youth opportunity to serve”, he added.