…Indicted directors to tarnish Osinbajo’s image
A Yoruba Affront Group‎, Progressive Yoruba Youth Congress (PPYC) has raised its eye over an attempt to blackmail vice president, Yemi Osinbajo in the current probe of alleged N2.5 billion fraud at the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)‎. The groups President, Comrade Kola Salawu, during a media parley in Lagos categorically expressed solidarity for the ongoing probe, but kicked emphatically, against the antics deployed by ‘detractors’ on the current NEMA leadership led by Prof. Yemi Osinbajo‎. “We are keenly watching the ugly progression of the probe of the at NEMA by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the repulsive role of some vested interests blackmailing and intimidating the current NEMA leadership, as reflected in the questionable intervention of the House of Representatives ad hoc committee”. Salawu‎ intimated that the VP had acted in consonance with the law by suspending the directors, but is marvelled by the new move to drag Osinbajo in the mud. “The indisputable fact is that the current probe was initiated by the Board of NEMA and acting in consonance with established norms, the Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who statutorily chairs the NEMA Board instantly suspended the directors implicated in the sleaze to pave way for a clean, unhindered and successful completion of the investigation by the EFCC”. “But rather than concentrate or channel energy on clearing their names or establishing their innocence, the directors have deployed various antics to subvert the course of justice, by dragging the NEMA Board to the House of Representatives ad hoc Committee”. “The invitation of the Vice President, Prof. Osinbajo by the Hon. Ali Isa-led committee over the N2.5 billion fraud, instead of the indicted six directors implicated in the fraud is an affront of the person and office of the Vice President. It is an undisguised plot to tarnish his good image, integrity and reputation, which cannot be allowed to stand”, he added. Salawu expressed ‘condemnation’ and renounce the subterranean plots by the political coupists to unjustly drag NEMA’s current leadership under with Mr. Mustapha Maihaja as DG and the Vice President who chairs the NEMA Board into the obvious and unnecessary politicization of a normal probe by the anti-graft agency. It mocks reason and there is no wisdom in the direction being bandied in public domain , whereas, preliminary investigations by the EFCC has substantially pointed to the leadership of the former NEMA DG and some directors who are still in service. “May it be noted that we are aware of plots by these retrogressive forces to use bogus and frivolous claims on non- existing financial expenditures to cage the current NEMA DG and the Vice President. Such plans should be perished immediately, because we are ready and sufficiently angered to match them strength for strength”.