Paschaline Alex Okoli is a Nigerian actress who is quite bold and strong-willed. Although, she had been labelled a snob and lesbian, but the Anambra State born actress is far from such unfounded accusations leveled against her. In this interview with MUTIAT ALLI the script interpreter clears the air on her personality, her kind of man, premarital sex and lots more. How has the year 2018 been for you?
So far, it has been so good. The year has been litty litty (if you know what I mean?) What are your plans for the remaining of the year?
My plans for the year is to set a clear goals for myself. Any plans to go into movie production?
For now, nope. Well, maybe before the year ends, something might come up in terms of going into production. Aside Jenifas dairy, you are hardly seen in regular movies, why?
I do other movies too, but not constant.

Which movie brought you to limelight?
College girls, the pay was nothing to write home about, but in all I am grateful. How supportive are your parents of your chosen career?
Well, my mum 1million percent from the scratch. But my dad was not having it the first time he knew about the movie stuff, but as a daughter that is as stubborn as her father, the old man had to accept by force, after much persuasion. Talking about being stubborn, we have heard people say you are also snobbish, how true is that?
Wow! snub? Not true at all. Being stubborn and snobbish are two different things. People that don’t know me see me as a snobbish little lady. But, I can’t go about trying to make people understand me. If you know me – you know! Aside movies what else do you do?
I run a cleaning company #Weclean. It is actually my personal little company. How long have you been in it and how did you start?
I started last year. It is not easy you know. I’m that girl that loves success, so I try to venture into one or two businesses apart from acting. Who are those you look up to in Nollywood?
Hmmm, I look up to my hardworking senior colleagues in the industry too numerous to mention. So many stories surround the success of female celebrities, so many saying that they engage in kinds of promiscuity to live a luxurious lifestyle, whats your take on that?
One sentence for this question is “people must talk”, no matter what you do or didn’t do. It was once rumored that you are a lesbian, can you defend that?
Like you said it’s all a rumour. Not true at all. What’s your take on same sex marriage?
No! I don’t think it’s right! How about sex toys, it’s almost taking over the world?
I don’t support that either. What do you think should be done to take Nollywood to a bigger height, just like their contemporaries?
The government should invest in entertainment industry. The qualities of movies are dropping, which way forward?
Like I said it still government, because we have good filmmakers. Even your colleague, Rita Dominic said the qualities of movies been shown in the cinemas are not worth it, is it the government’s responsibility too?
Yes, it is not every movie that should be in cinema. Let the quality of the film match the hype they always give it. Then, lack of fund. The government have not been supportive of the industry, most of the production you see out there are mostly self sponsored. Another one is greed! Some individuals have the resources to make a quality movie but because they want to make enough profit, they’d rather make a low quality movie for high profit. Not all Nigerian movies have poor picture quality and bad sound, there are exceptions. Some good and thorough movie producers are doing good works. During your early days in the industry, can you share your encounter as a green horn?
My first encounter with Nollywood was in 2010, when I did waka pass in a movie directed by Kalu Anya and it starred the likes of Chika ike among other actors. The movie was shot in Asaba, but at that, I was not ready to make it a career cos I was still in school. What’s your opinion on premarital sex?
I’m not a saint ooooo but Our bodies are to be temples of the Holy Spirit. St. Paul indicates that sin of the body is serious compared to sins outside the body. What makes a good actor?
A good actor should be so convincing in a role that he can hold an audience captive and make them feel as if there is nothing but the story at hand. Are you currently in a serious relationship?
Yes! I’m in a very serious relationship with God. Very serious. At what stage do you want to get married?
When the time is right.

What kind of man do you want for marriage?
A man who will support me and encourage me to pursue my desires and dreams. A man that will make me feel comfortable expressing my thoughts and feelings openly to him without fearing his judgment or ridicule. Single and ready to mingle?
It’s personal to me. Can we leave relationship matter, best known to me. What’s your best fashion accessories?
Shoes and bags. Do you have a regular beauty routine? If yes, can you share?
Yes, I use egg white, lemon, milk mix with sugar to scrub face once in a while. What could make Paschaline shed midnight tears?
When I miss home or things ain’t going the way I want it to, it makes me cry. Have you been heartbroken? And did you deal with it?
Yes, I am human, but after 2weeks I was back to normal Did that make you cry or starve yourself of food?
I was hurt to be honest, but I didn’t starve myself. What turns you off in relationships?
Fake lifestyle, pretense and lies. You have been with Funke Akindele’s production for years now, how best can you describe her?
She is an amazing woman. Where do you see your brand in a couple of years time…?
Well, I hope to have an acting school for young talents. I’m very passionate about helping people with my brand.