…Says acting chair of EFCC face of anti-graft war
 …We don’t torture suspects under interrogation – Commission
 …To arraign Sen Nwaoboshi in Lagos tomorrow
The Presidency has disclosed that the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, cannot be used for a negotiation or truce between the Senate and the Executive arm of government. The power brokers in the executive arm also vehemently refuted media report that the presidency was poised to trade off Magu as reported on Monday in one of the national newspapers, not The Daily Times. A prominent figure in the Presidency with vast knowledge on efforts to mend the frosty relationship between the two arms of government disclosed the development to The Daily Times on Monday night. The presidential aide, who spoke in confidence, said that the “reckless story” is part of gimmick by certain elements to weaken the fight against corruption. He said that Magu is the right man for the job, saying that he is doing excellent job despite all the distractions and fight backs. “There is no way we will sacrifice Magu for truce with Senate because he is doing his job conscientiously,” he said. As regard Magu’s recent promotion to the rank of Commissioner of Police, the source said that Magu merited it and that cannot be the basis for his imaginary transfer or sending him on course because the post of Chairmanship of EFCC is reserved for officers on the minimum rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police or its equivalent. He further said. ” Beside, the report erroneously claimed that Magu is expected to proceed for Senior Executive Course (SEC) at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, Kuru, Plateau State. The 2018 Senior Executive Course has commenced since January, 2018 and is not possible for anyone to join such an intensive course midway. President Muhammadu Buhari had insisted that Magu is the right person for the job and his performances and track records since he assumed the office attest to the fact that he is the proper person for it. Meanwhile, the EFCC has informed the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos that the commission does not torture suspects brought to the agency’s office for interrogation. An operative with the commission, Usman Zakari, stated this while testifying on Monday in a trial within trial to determine if statements made by former Federal Capital Territory Minister, Ms Jumoke Akinjide and her co-accused were voluntary. Akinjide had disowned five extra -judicial statements which she allegedly made at the EFCC. The other defendants – a former Senator representing Oyo Central Senatorial District, Ayo Adeseun, and a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader in Oyo State, Chief Olarenwaju Otiti – also claimed that they made their statements under duress. Akinjide’s lawyer, Mr. Olusegun Williams opposed moves by EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo, to tender the statements in evidence on the basis that they were obtained under duress. EFCC had accused the defendants of conspiring to directly take possession of N650 million, which they reasonably ought to have known was part of proceeds of an unlawful act, and without going through a financial institution. Justice Muslim Hassan had ordered a trial-within-trial to determine if the statements were made voluntarily. Led in evidence by the prosecuting lawyer, Nnaemeka Omenwa, who stood in for Oyedepo, Zakari, who heads the commission’s Special Task Force 4, said the defendants were not forced to make a statement. He said when Adeseun reported at the commission on May 11, 2016, he agreed to make a statement only in his lawyer’s presence. Zakari said, “We had to wait for his lawyer to come before he made statements. The following day, the second defendant made a statement voluntarily in the presence of his lawyer. The witness said Adeseun was granted bail but could not fulfill the conditions, following which EFCC obtained a remand order from a Magistrates’ Court. “At the expiration of the remand warrant, he was released to his nephew, a pharmacist who bore the same surname,” Zakari said. Zakari also said that Akinjide reported at EFCC on December 1, 2016, during which she was interviewed and cautioned. “After the interview, she volunteered her statement in the presence of her friend. She was granted bail on self-cognisance. She asked to be allowed to go home so she could come up with a list of people she disbursed part of the N650 million to. She was not detained. “In her next reporting date, she came with a list of beneficiaries to whom she disbursed over N90 million. “The second and third defendants’ statements were devoid of any promise, threat or duress. “The statements were made in the Conference room. It’s a big hall, not a torture chamber. We don’t torture, we don’t threaten. We investigate economic and financial crimes, not violent crimes,” he said. Zakari said Adeseun also submitted a list of people he shared money to out of the money he received from Akinjide. “As far as I can say, the second and third defendants volunteered their statements willingly,” the witness said. The commission said the defendants allegedly received the money from former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke, named in the charge as being at large, ahead of the 2015 general election. According to the EFCC, the alleged offence contravenes the Money Laundering Act. But the defendants pleaded not guilty when they were arraigned on January 16. Meanwhile, Justice Hassan has adjourned until today (Tuesday) for continuation of cross-examination of Zakari. Strong indication also emerged on Monday that the EFCC will on Wednesday (tomorrow) arraign the Senator representing Delta North senatorial district in the National Assembly, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, before a Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos. The Senator may be arraigned before Justice Mohammed Idris over issues bothering on alleged corruption and fraudulent contracts. But speculation is rife that Nwaoboshi has been having secret battle with Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa over alleged plans to stop him from returning to the red chamber in 2019. The anti-graft agency was said to have arrested the senator last week following the manner he allegedly purchased a building owned by Delta State, “Guinea House” in Lagos State among other alleged corrupt related issues.‎ A source familiar with the issue who confided in The Daily Times on Monday said Nwaoboshi was arrested few days ago based on series of corrupt cases allegedly leveled against him. The EFCC was also said to have invited the senator on several occasions but he reportedly turned down the agency’s invitation extended to him.