... Saraki sponsors 500 students for 2018 NBAIS examinations
The Kwara State Government has reiterated commitment towards improving the standard of schools across the state through adequate funding especially in the area of Arabic Language Education. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Mariam Garba stated this in Ilorin on Sunday while speaking with journalists shortly after the conduct of Mock Examinations for Arabic schools in preparation for the 2018 Senior Secondary Certificate Examination of the National Board of Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS). She disclosed that two thousand students participated in the examinations in six centres simultaneously across Kwara State namely; Ilorin, Lafiagi,Tsaragi, Jebba, Osi and Oke-Ode as well as Kaiama stressing that the examination was organized by Kwara State Arabic Education Board under the supervision of the state Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development. The Permanent Secretary who expressed high fulfillment in the conduct of the examinations noted that the exercise was to formally recognize and regularize Arabic Language Education in the state. According to her, “The examination is an all-inclusive arrangement where all registered Arabic and Islamic schools would be carried along in the scheme of things. I want to assure you students that nobody had ever passed through this path and later regret in life. many of you that have taken this course and many others who have gone through regular universities are not better than you. I want to encourage you not to relent in your efforts and proceed to higher institutions of learning. “We have a lot of professors in this fields and many others have cross to other professions. This is just an encouragement so that as soon as you finish these exams make sure you endeavour to further because this studies is not only good for nation-building but also useful for humanity.” In his remark, the visiting supervisor, Justice Idris Haroon (rtd) appealed to government at all levels to prioritize provision of improved educational platform to further boost the desired growth and development of the nation. Haroon who is also a retired Grand Khadi of the Kwara State Shariah Court of Appeal, Ilorin, lauded the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, for sponsoring 500 Arabic students for the 2018 Senior Islamic Certificate Examination with the sum of N5 million. Also speaking, the Chairman of the Kwara State Arabic Education Board, Dr. Abdulkadir Oba-Solagberu, disclosed that about 75 Arabic and Islamic Schools participated in the mock examination and thanked all the stakeholders for the successful conduct of the exercise.