* Inaugurates Gov Badaru- led National Convention Committee
National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Oyegun, has warned his party against the risk of being carried away with the sense of a ruling party, because 2019 elections will be tough as the county’s population has grown wiser. Oyegun, also described the APC as a living party, whose leadership are committed and dedicated “to make sure that this party is out in political fighting mood for the 2019 elections”. Speaking on Monday at the party Secretariat, in Abuja, during the inauguration of the party’s 2018 National Convention Committee headed by the Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Baduru, Oyegun said the party must not cuddle itself with false sense of being the party in power. The committee however, confirmed that the convention will hold in Abuja, contrary to speculation that some interests were planning to move it to Lagos State. He reiterated the need for the committee to ensure that the outcome of the convention reunite APC members. He said: “I am passing the bulk over to you today. At the end of this exercise, I want to see a reunited APC under whatever leadership your exercise brings up. We have a tough election ahead of us and we must prime ourselves for that election. We must not cuddle ourselves with any false sense of being the party in power. Our population today is much more aware of their rights than they have ever been before. So, as you proceed, please ensure that all these views and opinions are brought together into a one United APC. “The task that you have undertaken to perform is a heavy and tough one. The APC is known, in spite of induced controversies, for the cleanest primaries and congresses. Our last presidential primary was by all account one of the best ever held anywhere. “It was a convention that was watched worldwide and you are supposed to repeat the feat. I have no doubt that this one, given the controversies that have preceded it will also be a most watched convention. So, you have the task of producing a convention that is free, fair and provide a level playing field for anybody who wants to aspire to any position”. In his speech, the convention chairman, Governor Badaru assured that his panel will give all the contestants a level playing ground, saying that President Muhammadu Buhari has no business in running the government except for the care of our people as the APC’s mission is to rescue the country. “God is with us and God will continue to support us because of our clear vision, our good heart and our love for the people of Nigeria. We all know that our leader has no business in running this government except for the care of our people. Most of us you see in APC are in the party today to serve our people. Our mission in APC is to rescue the country from near collapse we saw around 2014 and 2015”, Badaru added.