The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General TY Buratai has Charged the various commands of the Nigerian Army especially “Operation Lafiya Dole “ to sustain the numerous successes being recorded by the Army across board on daily basis. The Army Chief stated this in a speech at the ongoing Chief of Army Staff Conference in Abuja. Buratai while calling on troops to desist from hobnobbing with politicians ahead of the 2019 general elections, said the Army is putting in place a robust procurement and operational plan to preserve and promote the successes of the Nigerian troops in all its engagements. Read the full text below:
OPENING ADDRESS BY LT GEN TY BURATAI NAM OMM (BR) GSS psc(+) ndc (BD) FCMH FNHAM BA (Hons) MA MPhil CHIEF OF ARMY STAFF ON THE OCCASION OF THE CHIEF OF ARMY STAFF FIRST QUARTER CONFERENCE IN ABUJA ON 10 APRIL 2018 PROTOCOL
1. It is my honour and privilege to welcome you all to Abuja for the COAS First Quarter Conference 2018. Let me start by using this opportunity to thank you all for commiserating with me and the entire Buratai family on the demise of our beloved father, Alhaji Yusuf Buratai, who died on the 9 February 2018. I pray that Almighty Allah grant him eternal rest.  In this era of political and social transformation, the NA remains steadfast in carrying out its constitutional roles as well as providing aid to civil authority. My vision for the NA which is “To Have a Professionally Responsive Nigerian Army in the Discharge of its Constitutional Roles” is geared towards ensuring a safer environment for development and socio-economic activities to thrive in the country. We must ensure that we conduct ourselves professionally and respond adequately to threats against our nation in accordance with our constitutional roles. The NA would continue to chart progressive paths towards tackling the security challenges confronting the nation. To this end, I have instructed that attention must be given to ongoing NA operations in various parts of the country to ensure that security threats are dealt with decisively. Training must also be given due attention so that we can outperform the achievements of the previous years. Furthermore, research and development must be sufficiently pursued and funded to promote and attain the desired transformation and innovation drive in the NA.  Operations DEEP PUNCH II in the North East and Exercise AYEM AKPATUMA in the North Central have achieved tremendous successes leading to the arrest of key suspects as well as recovery of arms and ammunition in Benue, Kaduna, Kogi, Niger and Taraba States. The conduct of Exercise AYEM AKPATUMA has been extended in Taraba State till 30 May 18 based on the prevailing security situation in the state. While paying tribute to the officers and men in the field, I urge you all not to relent on your efforts at ensuring a safer Nigeria. The need to review the conduct of NA operations across the country has become imperative in view of lapses recently observed among commanders. Some of the lapses observed can be partly attributed to indecisiveness when faced with obvious challenges. Hence, the attitude of commanders in the field must change especially towards decision making and taking appropriate action in line with the Rules of Engagements. In this regard, issues of murder, arson and other serious crimes perpetrated by ethnic and local militias, criminals and miscreants must be dealt with decisively. Commanders would be held responsible for any lapses arising from their actions or inactions. I have directed the CTOP (A) to set up a high powered team to review all our operations especially where lapses have been observed in order to bring to book all those involved in such cases. In this regard, I have set up a panel to investigate some of the allegations that have been made, particularly with regards to operations in Taraba State. The panel was tasked to ascertain the veracity of the statements made and the true situation of things in the State. Nonetheless, we must put in more effort to improve our relations with civilians and the citizenry at large through better narratives and media operations. The NA must remain apolitical and professionally responsive in the discharge of its constitutional roles. GOCs and Field Commanders at all levels are, therefore, warned that anyone that runs foul of his professional ethics will be appropriately dealt with. You are all enjoined to continue to remind officers and soldiers under command to remain non-partisan and be guided by the stipulated code of conduct and rules of engagement in the discharge of their duties particularly in the coming 2019 General Elections. Furthermore, NA personnel in any capacity who receives any form of inducement from politicians, public or private entities, knowingly or unknowingly will be severely punished. Both the giver and taker of such inducement will be investigated and appropriately sanctioned. I must state clearly that any officer or soldier who wishes to be sympathetic to a political, religious or ethnic group should voluntarily retire from the NA. Furthermore, all are reminded on the ban on any form of worship outside the barracks except those permitted for wedding and other social functions. Therefore, officers and soldiers must restrain themselves from any act of political, religious or ethnic patronisation as these would attract severe consequences. The fate of the 38 officers who were retired is still fresh in our memories. I, therefore, want to emphasize that personal clothing, protective gears, additional equipment/platforms, accommodation, welfare and other logistics provisions would be my top priority in the procurement plan this year. The companies include Innoson Vehicle Motors, Proforce Nigeria Limited and Nigerian Machine Tools amongst others. This is aimed at boosting local production and enhancing our growing military industrial complex. I believe this can be achieved if commanders at all levels imbibe and practice purposeful leadership in the efficient and effective management of men and materiel. Promotion Examinations held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State which recorded 93 percent pass. Similarly, the final list of officers nominated to attend NDC 27/NIPSS SEC 41 and equivalent foreign courses for 2018/2019 as well as the AWCN Course 2/2018 have been released. It is gratifying to note that the AWCN programmes would be conducted at the newly constructed permanent site of the College here in Abuja. Presently, the modification and harmonization of the course curriculum with other services war colleges is ongoing. This is with a view to having a harmonized course content, coordinated approach to war fighting and cohesive decision making process. This is with a view to conducting international seminars, conferences and symposia for the benefit of NA personnel, other para-military and security agencies, the executive branch and the academia. Recently, I directed a team of officers led by the DG NARC to embark on a working visit to the Harvard Kennedy School of Executive Studies to fashion out modalities for partnership. This is with a view to developing our capacity building and other leadership training programmes. It is hoped that on completion of the negotiations with Harvard Kennedy School (HKS), the NARC would begin to run some of HKS programmes based on needs assessment and memorandum of understanding. So far, 22 officers have been trained at the HKS. Officers at strategic levels are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity to develop and further enhance their capacity. This brings to fore the need for NA personnel to acquire sufficient knowledge and skills to aid communication and the discharge of their duties. Accordingly, knowledge of the 3 major Nigerian languages will ensure that NA personnel are able to fit in wherever they may be deployed. To this effect, I have approved the establishment of a language department in all NA training schools to enhance the communication skills of personnel. You are, therefore, enjoined to sensitize officers and soldiers to acquire basic knowledge of more Nigerian languages as well as major international languages, wherever they may be deployed. In addition, the desk has also helped in investigating human rights violations against serving personnel. I enjoin all to give the Human Rights Desk the required cooperation to enable them carry out their assigned tasks. The Corps will give the Nigerian Army an opportunity to reorganize the women in order to derive the maximum benefit from their contribution to the defence and security of our nation. This became expedient due to the planned relocation of 8 TF Div Monguno (Op LAFIYA DOLE) to its permanent headquarters in Sokoto State as provided in the NA ORBAT 2016. Let me reiterate that the Nigerian Army will continue to remain neutral in ensuring the safety of Nigerians wherever troops are deployed for operations within the country. It is also important to recognise NA personnel who have paid the supreme sacrifice during various operations. Their sacrifices have contributed immensely to the stability which the country currently enjoys. The NA has always enjoyed the support of sister Services and other security agencies in the discharge of its duties. The NA would continue to look forward to more support and collaboration towards making our dear country Nigeria safe for all. On behalf of officers and soldiers of the NA, I once more pledge our total commitment to the defence of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Thank you and God bless.