…. Suspects deny any involvement in the crime
Kazeem Opeyemi, a 24 years old undergraduate student of Ibadan Polytechnic allegedly arrested by personnel of 81 Division, Nigerian Army for cultism, has denied any involvement in the crime. The suspect who is reportedly a member of the Eiye Confraternity was arrested alongside 22 others during the training cum initiation of over 50 new members at their hideout in Ejinrin Depression area of Ikorodu. According to the General Officer Commanding 81 Division, Major-General Enobong Udoh, who paraded the suspected cultists at 174 Battalion in Ikorodu on Saturday, the suspects were arrested following an intensive surveillance and intelligence report to uncover their locations and activities. Udoh who was represented by the Commander 9 Brigade Ikeja, Brigadier-General Moundhey Ali said the suspects had upon noticing the presence of the troops, engaged them in a gun battle. Giving further details on how the suspects were arrested, Udoh said, ” In continuation of the crackdown on criminal elements and cultists in and around Lagos and Ogun states, the troops of 81 Division Nigerian Army on April 16, 2018 arrested 23 suspected cultists. ” They were arrested where over 50 of them from ‘Eiye’ confraternity were conducting physical training for new recruits, initiation and planning of robbery/kidnap activities. “Their arrest was preceded by shootout between the troops of 174 Battalion Ikorodu and the cultists after which, 23 of the suspected cultists were arrested while others escaped. Two of the suspects sustained varying degrees of gunshots wounds, one of the suspected newly recruited cultist died as a result of injuries inflicted on him during the cult initiation. ” However, one of the gallant soldiers while combatting the cultists sustained a gunshot wound on his left leg during the encounter and was immediately evacuated. The soldier and the 2 wounded cultists are receiving treatment at the Battalion’s Medical Reception Station.” The GOC revealed that the troops had also recovered 1 locally made double barrel pistol, 5 live cartridges, 5 machetes, 4 Jack knives, 2 table knives, 3 locally fabricated axes with nail-like edges, 5 mobile phones, 1 parcel containing substance suspected to be Indian hemp, 2 ATM cards, 8 identity cards, 9 passport photographs, packets of condom, rings and a variety of charms from the suspects. Contrary to the allegation, Opeyemi in his statement said, ” I don’t know anything about this. I am a student of Ibadan Polytechnic and I come home to raise money to pay my school fees since my exams will be starting next week. ” On that faithful day, I had ran into a senior friend in my area at Odogunyan and told him I needed some money to transport myself to my former boss who will help me with my school fees. He asked me to call him later in the day which I did and he asked me to come collect N1000. ” After collecting the money, I was about going back at about 11 am at Wale Aguda Street in Odogunyan when I heard siren and later gun shots I was just on one side of the road when an Army personnel came to arrest me. I am not a cultist, ” he insisted. Another suspect, Austin Okiki said he had come from Igbogbo to play football in Ifakale when he was arrested. Okiki claimed he and his friend were busy Washing at about 10 am on the said day when they were arrested. ” We were washing our Jersey when we heard sounds of gun shot and we immediately ran to a shop. It was while at the shop that I was arrested. Similarly, Obiora Nweke denied being a cultist. He said he had gone to a joint to smoke Indian hemp when he heard gun shots. He said he was arrested while the Army personnel were raiding the area. Meanwhile, the GOC said the arrested suspected cultists are undergoing preliminary investigations after which they will be handed over to the Nigerian Police for further investigations and prosecution.