…Ndi Ngwa should remain eternally grateful to him – Ikpeazu
Contrary to expectations by many, Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has ruled out any possibility of a face-off between him and his predecessor, Chief Theodore Orji, saying instead that he and the Ukwa Ngwa people should remain eternally grateful to him. Speaking at the 2018 Easter convention of The Apostolic Church, Aba field at Nbawsi in Isiala Ngwa North LGA, Ikpeazu, said many people in the state have been expecting that and wondered why he should quarrel with the former governor. ‘’I have been in good terms with him yesterday. I am in good terms with him today and tomorrow. Why should I quarrel with him’’, he queried, stating ‘’I am an Ngwa son that that was well breast- fed. I believe that every good gesture should be reciprocated and repaid and my people did not send me to go and begin to quarrel with my predecessor. That’s not the motive of my coming to power.’’ He thanked The Apostolic Church for its prayers which gave him victory in 2015 and identified himself with the permanent convention building project of the church at Nbawsi. The Governor who expressed his joy that the church is making progress, a sign he said meaning that God is in the church, pointed out that any church that lacks God is not complete and charged Christians to reflect on the significance of the death and resurrection of Christ which the Easter season brings. Earlier, in an address on behalf of the church, the General Secretary of The Apostolic Church, Apostle J.O Ihuoma said the church remains one of the foremost Pentecostal churches established in 1930 which believes and appreciates good leadership. He affirmed that Dr. Ikpeazu is doing well as Governor in various facets of the state’s economy and solicited the Governor’s assistance towards the completion of its 30,000 capacity permanent convention arena. In his speech, the former Governor of the state, Chief Orji thanked the church for its support and prayers and promised to continue to partner it.