This is as the group accused President Buhari of running a tribal and corrupt government. The pro-Biafra group made the claims in a statement made available to a credible online source by its leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu, where he said Buhari was not fighting corruption but was favouring his kinsmen against other parts of the country. Madu said rather than work as a leader for all the sections of the country, Buhari was pursuing ethnic and religious agenda. In his statement, she said:- “President Buhari have shown to the world that he is an unrepentant and resolute promoter of Islamic fundamentalism.” He further alleged that under the current administration. He said:- “The people of Biafra, Middle Belt and Oduduwa have watched, seen and experienced the unleashing of terrorist and genocidal wars, with the backing of Nigeria security agencies manned by Buhari’s kinsmen against the armless and innocent citizens of Biafra, Oduduwa and Middle Belt. “The consciousness for survival of the the people of Biafra, Oduduwa and Middle Belt have been reawakened and charged for self-defense and self determination. “We insist that President Buhari shall be the last president of this geographical expression called Nigeria because 2019 will surely manifest the last doom of Nigeria.” On corruption in governance, Madu said:- “Since the inception of democratic rule in Nigeria, the country has never be run in such high magnitude of illiterate tribal domination and corrupt tendencies. “Records has it that President Obasanjo sacked his IGP Tafa Balogun for corruption. He backed the impeachment of the then Senate President, Adolfus Wabara for corruption allegations. He also sacked his own ministers, Fabian Osuji, S.M Afolabi, Hussein Akwanga, Tim Menakaya, etc for corruption cases. He also sacked Mrs Mobolaji Osomo for administrative infraction. “The same way, late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua sacked Mrs Adenike Grange as Minister of Health for administrative infraction. “It is on records that President Jonathan also sacked Stella Odua for corruption allegations, though she was one of the most powerful ministers in President Jonathan’s administration. “President Jonathan also sacked Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina as the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reform for issues of corruption.” “Who has President Buhari sacked for the reported cases of corruptions and infractions in his government?” He queried. He added that:- “on the case of former SGF, Babachir Lawal, we wish to remind that the same President Buhari wrote the Senate, defended and exonerated Babachir of all wrongdoings leveled against him. It was the cries of citizens that forced him to sack Babachir and have him replaced with his own brother, Boss Mustapha. In other words, Mr. Babachir brought his own replacement. “MASSOB wish to remind the citizens that president Buhari also re-appointed the sacked corrupt men as a compensation for being Fulanis after they were all sacked for corruption and violation of their oaths of offices. “Abdulrasheed Maina was the chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reform. He was secretly recalled and reinstated by President Buhari. He was even promoted to the position of Director in charge of Human Resources in the Ministry of Interior. Maina was dismissed by President Jonathan in 2013 following recommendations by the Office of the Head of Service. He was accused of stealing about 100billion naira from the pension fund. “Zakari Biu (CP) was dismissed following his complicity in the escape from police detention of notorious Boko Haram suspect, Kabiru Sokoto. He was reinstated and promoted to the rank of AIG by President Buhari before he was gloriously retired from active service. “Prof Usman Yusuf (NHIS Boss) was accused of squandering over 997 million naira from the schemes intervention fund. Investigation was carried out and he was dully sacked by the minister of health, but because he is President Buhari’s brother, he was recently reinstated. “We know that President Buhari is not fighting corruption or upholding rule of law, but using the estate called Nigeria to enrich and project his Fulani kinsmen against the rest of the citizens. President Buhari’s government has finally exposed the fraudulent foundation of the British establishment called Nigeria.”