Prepare for summer with all the beauty essentials needed for the season. Here are some tips to get you ready. 1. Brighten Your Skin
The power of Vitamin C in these environmental shield products brightens the skin, improving tone and clarity. The 3-step skin care range takes care of impurities, restores moisture and protects from future damage leaving the skin bright and radiant. So if you want to treat dark spots and wrinkles caused by UV rays, pollution and other environmental toxins, these skin care products are your best bet. 2. Clear Your Skin

The Murad Acne Range is a definite essential with a maximum strength regimen that delivers rapid results without dryness or irritation. Tailored to those with problematic skin, the Murad acne range gives clearer skin in 72hours! These products are both effective and gentle because they are formulated with pharmaceutical-grade ingredients enriched with hydrators, anti- inflammatories and antioxidants. 3. Soft, Smooth and Moisturised skin

Treat yourself to this silky and generous cream formula rich in Oat extracts to nourish dry skin. Oat extract is recognized for its softening properties leaving your skin lastingly smoothed, soothed and nourished while eliminating sensations of tightness. Daily usage ensures your skin regains its extreme softness and all its suppleness. What’s more, 94% of its ingredients are from natural origin! It’s even free of mineral oil, colorants and paraben. 4. Goodbye Cellulite & Stretchmarks

The botanical triple action power in this Bums & Tums shaping gel is amazing. It helps to achieve a flat stomach and firmer buttocks while re-sculpting your tums area. With a fresh gel texture, it penetrates immediately with non-sticky effect. 5. Lipstick that Stays Put

Lip stains are the ultimate finishing touch to any makeup look. Available in 9 shades, BlackUp No Transfer Matte Liquid Lip colors gives a dramatic look with an ultra-matte finish that lasts the whole day. Simply apply a dark shade on the lip contour, a lighter shade in the heart of the lips, blend it all to achieve a sublime ombre lips and you are ready to go. 6. Eyes that Glow

Functional eye shadow is a beauty must-have for any occasion, whether it’s a job interview, a night out or a family gathering. If you have a palette with multiple colors, you can create various looks depending on what you’re going for. Available in 3 variants, these eye shadow palettes by blacklUp offer an infinite range of possibilities to bring out the Make-up Artist inside of you in brush stroke! It is the ultimate tool to give free rein to the imagination of artistic make-up fans! 7. Get the Right Fragrance

Your choice of fragrance says a lot about you. This fragrance has a contemporary flavour: fresh and young, romantic and sensual. It’s cheerful and lively, characterized by the bracing touch of marine notes and Sicilian Mandarin, the gentle, voluptuous and intensely feminine Neroli and Rose of Grasse. Bourbon Vanilla and Amber create an atmosphere of seduction, while romantic and passionate Patchouly and Musk add a touch of sensuality. Ladies, you must own one of these. Concentrate on your pulse points- wrists, neck, behind the knees, behind the ears, and even in your décolletage for long-lasting results. All products are exclusively available at Montaigne Place