Without any doubt Nollywood is awash with heavenly beauties and sexy goddesses who are exploiting their divine beauties and natural talents to the full in an industry that thrives more on physical attributes than on talent. But some of these queens have beautifully married their talents with their physical endowments. But behind their talents and beautiful faces, there line a lot of worries to these beautiful damsel. AJIBADE ALABI & MUTIAT ALLI takes a look at their silent tears and writes on it, which he terms; Bitter Tears of Nollywood Queens. Talk about the shape of the faces’ housing celestial pairs of black’s eyes, talk about the rose-colour of the shiny black smooth skin. Think about the slim waist, the rounded behind that sways majestically in response to the stepping of the long, slim legs. And for that matter think about the jumping breasts that should put ideas in the mind of a clergyman. All the same picking out the best of Nollywood‘s screen queens is not only a task that is as difficult as a cow passing through the eye of a needle, but can also be controversial, since Nollywood, as it was earlier stated, is filled with beautiful and sexy actresses, who can hold their own against anybody in any beauty pageant, but behind that their beauty they have a tear Check out the roll-call: Omotola Jalade Ekeinde, mi Edo, Stephanie Okereke, Bukky Wright, Genevieve Nnaji, Faithia Balogun, Stella Damasus,, Lilian Bach, Laide Bakare, Oby Edozieh, Bisi Ibidapo’ Obe, Lizzy Anjorin, Funke Akindele, Dayo Amusan, Toyin Aikmaku, Funke Adesiyan, Funke Eti, Biodun Okeowo, Jaye Kuti, Foluke Daramola, Aishat Omoge campus, Stella Damsuus and Rita Dominic.

These and many more are the queens among a bevy of sexy goddesses that swarm location centers everyday in an industry that is growing so fast it has defied any control. Apart from the fact that they dazzle in movies they appear in, they also give joy and satisfaction to the lovers of movies the way they convincingly get into the character they play. And for themselves, they have made names and perhaps, fortune. They have all paid their dues before attaining their present heights and status, each of them sacrificed in all life’s ramification. In an arena bedeviled by man-know-man, and use what-you-have-to-get what -you-want, it was not a bed of roses for them at the inception. Omotola Jalade Ekeinde could easily be described as the luckiest amongst them. She hit the jackpot from the first day she sauntered into the industry. If Omotola who has consistently been in and out of the labour room for four times with four kids had paid for her beauty and fame with destructive rumours about romantic flings with the high and mighty in the society. The rumours were so damaging that it was rumoured that her husband was at a time, thinking seriously of throwing her out of the matrimonial home. However, she is luckier than many of her colleagues since she has been able to keep a home. a feat that is still beyond many of her friends. On the plus side, her fame and beauty has opened many doors for her in the corridors of power as well as business circles. Today, Omotola remains one of the most comfortable actresses around and that probably is why she has been described by many people as arrogant and proud. Genevieve Nnaji’s story has remained a recurring affair. Hers is a chequered history. The early pregnancy that forced her to abandon secondary school, her hard life on the street frustrated and almost rejected, initial frustrations by producers, sexual harassment, name them. But she was determined and focused. Today, apart from being one of the best actresses in Nollywood her beauty once won her the million-dollar. Face of Lux competition which has removed her from the crowd of ordinary actresses. But this beautiful, rich girl is still waiting for the man who would call her ‘My wife’, a big price she is paying for being famous and rich. Bukkv Ajoke Wright’s name will definitely ring a bell in the ears of Nollywood faithful. The beautiful crossover actress who shot into limelight in 1998 via her scintillating performance in the Mainframe popular movie “Saworo ide” is among the few graduates in Nollywood.

She interprets her role so well, that many Yoruba film lovers find it impossible to watch any film (s) that did not feature this beautiful and sexy actress. With two children and no known husband Bukky Ajoke is also paying a heavy fine from been fame. Rita Dominic and Bimbo Akintola are also among the queens in Nollywood, but they are yet to settle down as a wife. Stephanie was once married, but the marriage packed up after years of controversy between her and her former husband, a former Super Eagles Player Chikelue IIoenuosi,. But now thank God she now married to Mr. Linus If Stephanie has tasted marriage failure before she eventually settled down , Rita is yet to taste how it looks like with grapevine saying, she is under pressure from families and friend.

That Rita Dominic, since her return from oversea to joined the profession of make-believe has hit gold is stating the obvious, but she has not be so lucky to see a man who will put a ring in her fourth fingers, she only get that only from films, but she is not complaining of the paparazzi and fame the show business has thrown her way. But like several others, the same fame that is bringing her fortune is driving away eligible bachelors while her ardent admirers are married men who are only out for a good time. Periscope Stella Aboderin and Faithia Balogun, two Deltalites who are once married to Yoruba’s, they can be described as “old timers”, two actresses who have been at the top for many years.

But at present while Faithia is still searching and single, as a result of her crashed marriage. Stella is yet to legalise her marriage with Daniel Ademilokan another entangled husband of a Nolywood actress, Doris Simeon. Before the collapse of Faithia Balogun marriage to Saidi Balogun, both are always seeing in movies, and one could say they were be facing audience fatigue as theft faces are seen in almost all the films and a good number of people are getting tired of seeing them in almost all the films. But how times changes, since when their marriage became a history, they have not been seen together any more again. This cannot be said of Stella who is now enjoying all sorts of paparazzi in her new found love in far away America Ini Edo could easily pass for a sex symbol. In fact this actress has got all it takes to be Nigeria’s first Miss Nollywood. Talk of a beautiful face, sexy body that can make even the most disciplined man on earth start imagining things, and a good height to match.

She came to limelight with a role in a film titled “World Apart” and ever since, the star actress in “Unforeseen” where she played three different roles has been dishing out a scintillating performance. When she eventually married society and her fans were happy for her that at least she could have somebody she could call her head, but suddenly controversy starts to trails her, as she is said to be under her husband family pressure to give them a “result’ -baby. And months later her marriage became history as she opted out of the marriage institution to return to the league of Spinsters of Nollywood. Same things applied to Funke Akindele despite her fame and talent she could not see through institution of marriage as she was forced out of the marriage that was well celebrated in Nigeria media and beyond. Though she is back to the institution of marriage Laide Bakare and Obby Edozieh, are two different beauties. Laide apart from the fact that she is one of the few Nollywood graduates is also a crossover actress; having featured in Royal Family She is sexy and attractive.

Alhaja (having performed the holy pilgrimage) cannot be neglected when the list of queens is rolled out. But she also paid the price of fame, when she was reported to have dated two men at the same time, in fact the paternity of her last baby was put into question as she dumped her former husband only to announced that she was months pregnant and claimed the pregnancy belong to her new husband. Obby Edozieh is sexy, beautiful and talented. If there is any award for tall and sexy actresses the award will be won by Obby, but her marriage to Alex O, was not without a controversy, as she was accused to married another s man s husband. The list of beautiful queens in Nollywood will not be complete without mentioning ex-Delta Soap model, Lilian Bach. If there is any actress that has all graces of beauty, this Deltalite girl got it all.

Talk of good physique, tempting lies, down to uncommon forehead, and a good skin, this lady has got it all. Her fans cut across the federation, as she has acted in some Yoruba films. She is always a producer and fans delight. But that was how far her plus ends, as she is still searching for that “man” Lizy Anjorin could be said to be one of the most controversial actresses in Nollywood, even at that, she has not find the institution of marriage a place to be, she has been linked with so many society men which she always denied. Bisi Ibidapo obe also paid the price, despite her beauty and talent she is yet to find that elusive husband, even when it seems she has finally found one in Melaye the bubble got busted as she was kicked out by Melaye who also claimed that the baby she bore is not for him. For Foluke Daramola the wind of inconsistency has been blowing in her marriage, after her crashed marriage to Mr. Shobowale, she re married but a lot of brouhaha follow the marriage, and many rumour was flying years back that the marriage has hit the rock. It took her many days in fact she went to social media to denied the wicked rumour as she described it.

In all, it has been easy for these actresses as far as their careers are concerned but in other hands, it is not having easy. And that aptly caption the popular saying that; ‘uneasy lies the head that wears the crown”