The first lady of the federal republic of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari has come out to defend herself against the interview that went viral last year which she was seen criticizing her husband, Buhari’s government and administration. The outspoken woman made it known to Nigerians in a light message she sent to the 2017 vanguard awards where she was honored as vanguard personality of the year, that criticizing her husband’s tenure and administration is based on her own self of judgement.  A copy of the message of the president’s wife was revealed to the journalists by her spokesperson, Suleiman Haruna in the event where she was represented by one of her daughters, Halima.  Aisha Buhari further explained she was being brought up to be truthful in all her ways and that is how she has been living all the days of her life.  ”My husband was elected as the president of Nigeria because of the trust and confidence they have in him and he should therefore not disappoint them, so he should serve them to the best of his ability.”  President Buhari‘s wife also thanked the manager of Vanguard limited for finding her worthy for the unexpected award in recognition of her humanitarian efforts towards improving the health and welfare of Nigerians particularly women, children and less privileged. “One of the reasons adduced for honouring me was the interview I granted which some people saw as criticism to a government that I am part of.  “I need to state that my position was a result of my sense of justice and not confrontation or disrespect. I was brought up to stand by the truth and this is how I have always been.  I will like to tell all Nigerians that I am in support of my husband’s service to humanity and I will keep doing so.  Recall that Mrs Buhari shocked the nation in an interview last year when she said she might not support his husband ambition in 2019 if he fails to shake up his cabinet as the president does not know many of the top officials he appointed. Aisha however didn’t mention anybody’s name but told people they will know them if they keep watching television.