…Arrest six suspects with fetish substance
Determined to put an end to activities of Yahoo, Yahoo boys and ritualists in Delta State, the Delta State Police command says it has launched a special squad of detectives to arrest anyone suspected to be member of any of these groups of fraudsters and ritualists operating across the state. The Police Commissioner in the state, Mustafa Muhammad, who confirmed the new strategy of the police to newsmen in Asaba on Friday, disclosed that six persons suspected to members of the Yahoo, Yahoo boys’ group were on Thursday arrested around Summit Junction road in Asaba with fetish substance wrapped into polythene bags, adding that the suspects upon interrogation, made useful statements to the police. He said:” The police new strategy will pay off with a view to arresting suspected Yahoo, Yahoo boys and ritualists. We are collaborating other security agencies in the state to ensure the hoodlums, Yahoo, Yahoo boys, and ritualists are brought to book. Any suspect arrested will not be released until investigations are completed. I am happy Deltans are cooperating by way of providing useful information to the police”. He assured that all suspects would be prosecuted according to the law. CP Mustafa Muhammad further disclosed that to archieve fruitful results, the police command resolved that the special squad will operate in mufty for a period of months, adding that there will be stop and search added to ensure effective policing across the state, especially hotels and brothels where the suspects frequent and ensure they are brought to book. Meanwhile, the police commissioner has said that the command’s detectives have launched a search for the killers of a 54-year-old man and allegedly raped his wife in Edjekota town, Ughelli North Local Government Area of the state. CP Mustafa Muhammad said that the police detectives have been mandated to comb nooks and crannies in area to ensure the killer suspects are brought to book, disclosing that the police had recently convened a meeting with all stakeholders including the local government chairman in the area and the member representing the area at the state House of Assembly to ensure the matter had a head way. It would be recalled that the 54-year-old man was killed in the process of trying to prevent the suspects now on the run from raping his wife, a situation his attackers allegedly killed him as the incident occurred in their farmland last week. Since then, there has been tension and fear of the unknown in the community as the aggrieved family members with the support of some community members in protest, took the corpse to the palace of Ovie of Ogor Kingdom, but the chiefs described their actions as sacrilegious, and resisted the move and drove them back home. Since then, the police have launched serious haunt for the killers of the 54-year-old man as it vowed to bring them to book.