…. Abducted 2 others
Topline Security, a private guard company employed by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), to secure Petroleum pipelines has accused the Nigerian Navy of killing two of its personnel and abducting two others in the Ilashe area of Lagos. Speaking at a press conference over the weekend, the Coordinator of the security firm, Chief Joshua Aminu disclosed that the murdered personnel identified as Bello Williams and Oluwasegun Olusanya were killed on the line of duty. Narrating how the duo were murdered, Aminu stated that on July 11th, at about 3:30pm, some personnel of the Nigerian Navy led by an officer named Aminu Goni stormed the Ilashe area in two speed boats, opened fire on his men. It was gathered that while the abducted security guards – Abayomi Ojugbele and Benedict Orme – sustained gunshot wounds, the guards were slaughtered with a machete and buried in a shallow grave. According to Aminu, “on the day of the incident, a pure water company had supplied my men pure water with a boat; so they called me and I sent them to go carry the bags of pure water to their tents. Our patrol team had gone to carry the bags of water when two speed boats of the Nigerian Navy stormed the area and started shooting sporadically. “The guards ran for safety and I was immediately called and informed of the invasion by some personnel of the Nigeria Navy. I called the officer in charge of the Navy base covering the area, Aminu Goni to inform him of the incident. I called him five times and he didn’t respond. I called the authorities of the NNPC to inform them of what had happened. “Goni later called me and was telling me that a misunderstanding broke out between his personnel and my men. I told him that was why I was calling him earlier. I requested he go and rescue my men. Goni assured me the situation was under control that he is taking my men to the hospital. He even told me it was a mistake. “Later in the evening when I called him, he said my men were responding to treatment. I requested to see them but he said they will be discharged the next day that there was no need. “I called Goni again that evening and asked if the incident was truly a mistake because based on what I had seen, Naval personnel shot at the windscreen and one of the bullet even went through the driver’s seat. I also told him of how his men had punctured the four tyres of the patrol vehicle. Goni said I shouldn’t worry that he was coming to see me and that we would settle the matter amicably. “With the anger I called NNPC to inform them I wasn’t working again. I also called Topline management in Abuja to inform them of the development.” Quote:
“The guards ran for safety and I was immediately called and informed of the invasion by some personnel of the Nigeria Navy”. – Topline Security