*Urges states to review cases of condemned criminal cases
Contrary to recent reports in the media that the federal government has spent $1billion from the Excess Crude Account (ECA), the National Economic Council (NEC) has disclosed that the money has not been expended to fight insecurity. Anambra State Governor Willy Obiano disclosed this on Thursday after the meeting of NEC presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the President Villa. The Daily Times recalls that the National Assembly had insisted that the president could not spend the money without the approval of the legislature. Answering question on why killings have not stopped despite the fact that NEC approved $1billion to fight insurgency, insecurity and buy arms, Governor Obiano hinted that the money has not been spent by the federal goverment. Obiano said, “It was not deliberated at NEC with respect to the $1 billion to be spent on saving lives and property across the nation. However I have been properly informed that the money has not be expended yet. “There is a growing concern including at the council and elsewhere that issue of killing must stop. I believe that all the appropriate agencies are aware that concern is growing and I am confident that they listen to the pleas of people and do something more drastic than they have done so far. Meanwhile, Bauchi State Governor Mohammed Abubakar, has said during the media briefing that the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) made a presentation on the vexed issue of prison decongestion. The governor noted that the problems bedeviling prisons in Nigeria was a matter of common knowledge, saying that the presentation have special consideration to condemned prisoners. He also disclosed that as at July 18, the country has 2,359 condemned convicts nationwide, lamenting that the threats posed by the convicts to the prison system is very serious. He also disclosed that the AGF proffered the following recommendations to the council: “That state governors may wish to carry out a review of the cases of condemned convicts within their jurisdiction as enshrined in Section 212 of the 1999 Constitution”. “That the Nigerian Prisons Service to review it’s policy on inter-state transfer of prisoners to reduce incidences of prisoners being held outside their states of conviction; “Cases of convicts outside the state of conviction maybe forwarded to the governor of the state where they were sentenced for consideration. Governor Abubakar also told State House correspondents that the NEC noted the recommendations and welcomed actions by governors, saying that most of the actions are to be taken by governors because they have the responsibility of signing the warrant of execution of the condemned prisoners. On his part, Oyo State Deputy Governor, Moses Alake Adeyemo, said that the Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, also reported the following balances in the federation accounts: Excess Crude Account $1,918,509,918.86, Stabilization Fund Account N18,882,864,216.56 and Natural Resources N133,715,427,387.37. Earlier in his briefing, Govenor Obiano said that the minister of environment made a lengthy presentation on flooding and erosion disasters across the nation. He said, “He talked about the collaborative partnership between the federal government and the state governments with the presidential committee on flood relief and rehabilitation to immediate intervention of flooding prevention and mitigation and preparedness in the country. “He adduced many reasons why we have flood challenges including non-distilling areas, poor urban planning, mismanagement of the forest through burning and what have you. “At the end, the following prayers were arrived at: Short time and sustainable way to distilling major tributaries, canals ahead of the flooding session. This is relatively inexpensive and executable within a very short period of time.” He said that the council also agreed to set up a federal monitoring unit comprising officers of the collaborating entities, federal states and presidential committee on flood relief respond to be headed by a director. According to him, this is to identify locations of crucial actions on realistic cost estimates and implementing flood prevention, mitigation and preparedness programme. He also disclosed that the NEC also approved a project cost sharing ratio of federal government 30 percent, states 30 percent, presidential committee on flood 40 percent on identified projects.