With your new book, you exposed a lot about of your family issues; what steps have you taken to reconcile with your father? Despite the rejection by my father, all this are courage that has shaped me to the woman that I am today. Although my father is late now, but I was able to do that with the help of my mother. We had a good relationship before he passed on like three years ago. We had that moment where we had to sit down and make amends. Do you now have a good relationship with other members of your family after? Definitely!! One of the reason why you have to read the book to know how we got that point ; I think it’s what happens to a lot of people because most time you don’t know what you are doing until you are been confronted on what you have been doing. My father is a wonderful man and good husband to my mother; looking at their relationship always made me to want to get married. My father is full of surprises and he made have this believe that marriage is beautiful depending on who are getting married to. It’s been said that woman like to married a man like their father; was that applicable to you too? Yes!! If I could have an husband like my father because he as a perfect gentleman and a good man& husband to my mother. You talked about your previous marriage, is there any part of the book where you addressed finding love again? Off course in the book I mentioned my past marriage and everyone is aware of it because it was all over the social media and also there is a part of the book where I also took part of the blame and all that. Is there a new relationship now? I think you have to wait for the big announcement to come when it’s due. Having spoke about your past relationship in the book, are you not scared that you may be dragged to court for revealing too much? For me all I wrote in the book is equally all that have been addressed in the court and in the media, there is no defamation of character at all because it’s all there in the media. The court knew why I left my marriage because it is legal as it was due to domestic violence which was obvious. I don’t have a terrible relationship with my ex, I have forgotten and let go all that happened and moved on. What will you miss most about your late mum? I will miss everything because my mum was very strong woman, passionate and don’t forget she was a pastor. She was educated and very outspoken philanthropist. She was my pillar; like I always say to people when your parents passed, God becomes your father and mother and he will surely be there for you always. When the media tries to play on your vulnerabilities; what will be your reaction? The normal reaction because of course nobody wants his/her vulnerabilities is played upon. But at this point in my life; it’s a two-way street, life is either good or bad. You embrace the truth and leave the bad; at this point I think I am strong right now and for me to write this book showed that I am ready. So how were you able to overcome those turbulence moments in your life? I think one of the greatest challenges so far for me was when my parents passed, for two years I was living but I was not myself because I was going through a lot of emotion. Six months after mum passed I lost my sense of being what I meant by that is that I could not think straight because I was going through a moment of depression. I never knew that the loss of a parent or a family member can make you pass through this but at the end, I prayed, went for counseling and I got better. How affordable is the book? Very affordable as a copy can be gotten for a token of five thousand naira but in some couple of days, I will be doing lots of promotions but you have to stay tuned to benefit from it. On Okada books download its selling for two thousand five hundred naira. You equally said you took some blames in the book; young girls how there will like to know what part of the blame you took and how you were able to resolve it? You have to read the book to understand all this phases I went through!! Truth be told, I took blames that were mine and how I overcome it is one of the reason you have to read the book. You ventured into real estate at age 20, why then do you go into acting? I have always loved to act because acting is my first love; it makes me wake up in the morning feeling happy. My latest movie is titled ‘Small Chops’ and will be out in cinemas across the country. Real Estate on the side is equally one of my ventures because I am a business oriented person and acting has given me that platform to get favored and be involved in several projects. With ‘Boss Up’, do we get to see like sequence of it into a movie or series? Let’s keep our fingers crossed and just see how we unfolds because am very sure I will pull a Beyoncé on all of you. Currently I am looking at all the opportunities that will come with it but on the movie aspect I have not thought about it. What is the scariest experience you have had in acting? I was on clutches at some point and what made me to use that is part of the reason why you need to read the book. That was one of my scariest moment because I thought I was going to lose my legs because the doctor told me I won’t be able to do some amount things for some years; that was my breaking point in the Nollywood. Did is happen during a movie set? Yes it was on a movie set.    