By: Mutiat Alli Both parties put pen to paper on Thursday, July 7 at the Temple Management office located in Lagos. Expressing his glee at the new partnership, Sound Sultan remarked, “I am amazed at how much this organization has achieved within a short space of time and I excitedly look forward to a fruitful, interesting and successful journey with this new management team. Before joining the Temple Management, looking from the outside, I could tell that this organization has a well-structured plan, one that is synonymous with the personal brand I want to continue building. I am indeed elated to be part of this family’. Sound Sultan further disclosed that this is the first time he is being managed professionally since the inception of his career. He added that he took the decision to be managed by Temple Management based on his firm belief in the vision of the organization and his confidence in the alignment of the organization’s vision with his. Welcoming Sound Sultan onboard, the Chief Financial Officer, Temple Management Company, Hamza Idris-Kutigi, speaking on behalf of the Group Chief Executive and Founder of Temple Management Company, Idris Olorunnimbe expressed his delight at the relationship that has been birthed with high hopes for the future. “Our inherent desire is to change the face of the entertainment sector has birthed a yearning to work with rare talents such as Sound Sultan whose musical content is rich and inspiring. This synergy is the beginning of a journey we truly eager to commence and we promise to put nothing short of our best foot forward”.  Idris-Kutigi further assured Sound Sultan of Temple Management’s absolute confidence in his vision and brand pledging to ensure optimal delivery at every given time. Sound Sultan is the latest addition to the Temple Management talents who are spread across entertainment, sports, the arts, media and other areas. Temple Management is a foremost agency specializing in the management of talents across Africa. Within a short space of time, it has signed on both budding and established artistes which include Bisola, Jeff Akoh, Seun Adigun, Lekan Babalola, Fola David, Logor, Kenneth Omeruo amongst a host of others.