 By: Mutiat Alli The lavish event was a resounding evening of fabulous fashion presentation and a mesmerizing music concert, taking cues from key themes explored in the movie – music, fashion and culture. With less than two weeks to the movie’s cinematic release nationwide on July 20, the cast and other members of the production team took to the carpet to hint about the excitement that ‘Lara and the Beat’ promises. “We had a lot of fun on set making this movie, and I am particularly excited about the cultural elements that stand out in this movie,” said Seyi Shay, who plays Lara Giwa in the movie. “Music is a big part of this movie, and to see how it was perfectly fused with this production, makes me really proud as a music artiste.” “We are now starting to see a brilliant collaboration between Nollywood and the music industry,” says Tosin Coker, Director of Lara and the Beat. “This is very special for me because I started my career as a music video director, and to see this happening now and to be a part of it, is something I am really proud of.” Like the director of the movie, Seyi Shay who plays the role of the lead protagonist, Lara Giwa, and Vector who plays her love interest, Sal, also have a music background, both being major music stars. Other cast members from the music industry include DJ Xclusive (who plays Jide), and Toni Tones (who plays Trish). “It’s great to see how this blend of movie and music has played out tonight, all the brilliance shown not only by the music cast members, but especially by the traditional Nollywood cast members as well, who really made this a pleasant experience,” said Vector. Lara and the Beat also has an original music soundtrack produced by ace music producer Tee Y Mix, with significant input from the team at Universal Music Group in Nigeria. Tee Y Mix who has worked with some of the music artistes in this movie before, said “Regular studio recording is not quite the same as when you’re making an original music soundtrack for a movie, but it’s not any less fun. I’m really proud of what we’ve created.” “What drew us to this production was the vision they had to fuse music with movie, and this is something our mother brand has done in other parts, and we were glad to be able to do the same in Nigeria,” said Eze Ezegozie of Universal Music Group (UMG) Nigeria. Lara and the Beat produced by Tolu Olusoga stars award winning Nollywood heavyweights Somkele, Chioma Akpotha, Chinedu Ikedieze, Uche Jombo, Lala Akindoju, Bimbo Manuel, Wale Ojo, Shaffy Bello, and Saidi Balogun. Other cast members include Deyemi Okanlawon, Demola Adedoyin, Folu Storms, Sharon Ooja, Anne Icha, Akan Nnani, Dara Egerton Shyngle, Bollylomo, David Jones David, Cookies, Keira Hewatch, Patrick Oke and Demi Banwo.