By: Mutiat Alli For how long have you been in the music industry? I have been in the industry for about five years now dropping singles and shooting videos. What inspires to do music and what genre of music do you do? Yes some Nigerian rappers inspire me like Terry Tha Rapman, Mode 9, and 2face Asa. I do Hip-hop, Rap music, Afro pop and anything that I can vibe to. Are you currently under any label or management? My record label is called Yannick Philippe Music Group and my management is run by my manager. Do you have any special features that you think would stand you out in no due time? Yes. I had collaboration with Terry Tha Rapman and Pherow but I’m already planning to work with Mode9 on a new single which I believe it’s going to be a big hit. I have always admired Mode 9 style of rap, one of the reason I look forward to working with him on project too. In the next 3 years, where would you love to see yourself? I see myself doing more collaboration and dropping more videos, singles and establishing a brand for myself. What are you currently working on? I’m currently working on an EP of six songs and I will be getting collaborations on it as am I equally planning on drop an album before the end of the year. What’s your educational background? I have a Higher Diploma in film making and acting for TV/Film in Paris and London. Are your parents fully in support of your music career? Yes. They are my biggest fans. My Dad and Mom have always been in full support. Would you say you were born with a silver spoon? No. Just want to survive because I wasn’t born with even a bronze spoon How was growing up days like? Any fond memories? Yes, was fun playing in the park with friends and didn’t have much so I had to put in work. What are the challenges you’ve faced as an upcoming act? If you are not popular yet, no one wants to know you until you ‘blow’. Too many free shows to expose yourself and it’s not easy on me at all. If you have better offer by an established record label will you jump on it? Well, It’s good to get sponsors but am working on my label if I get I might jump on. It all depends on the offer. I just want to establish my brand before making moves. Any plans to dabble in Afrobeats? Yes, I have always loved Afro pop right from my early days so I would maybe with small doctor it depends because i love his songs Can you compare life in Nigeria and UK? Yes, it’s very different especially when it comes to security, power supply, human rights, educational standards and love Since you studied Film writing and production; have you featured in any movie? Yes, in a movie called invisible men in which I was the lead actor and it got nominated at the British Film festival and picked up by channel 4 London