*To send seized rice, others to IDP camp
Not relenting on its effort to rid the nation of prohibited and smuggled items, the Nigeria Customs Service, Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘A’ has intercepted a truck loaded with 498 cartons of CSP Codeine Cough syrup along the Ijebu-Ode / Ore road and two suspects arrested. The Controller Zone ‘A’, Comptroller Mohammed Uba, who disclosed this during a press briefing at Ikeja on Wednesday, said the codeine cough syrup were in 100ml bottle with 200 bottles per carton. Preliminary investigations revealed that the products which were imported from the United Kingdom were intercepted based on credible intelligence while they were been smuggled to the Eastern part of the country loaded in a truck marked LAM283 LG. The Daily Times recalls that cough syrup with codeine had been placed on ban by the Federal Government, following its abuse by many Nigerians, especially the youths. Speaking on the seizure, Uba said, ” The substance is valued at over N199million. Two suspects are in custody over the seizure. The drugs and the suspects will be handed over to NAFDAC for further investigation and possible prosecution in a court of competent jurisdiction. The fight against drug abuse and illicit drugs is a collective effort and if all hands are on deck, we will make our nation a drug free society.” Uba, who also spoke on the other breakthroughs by the Zone, said 21 exotic vehicles, 9,504 bags of 50kg rice, 436 jerrycans of vegetable oil, 333 cartons of frozen poultry products amongst other items all with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of over N1.120billion. The Controller said the various seizures were made between June 13 and July 24, 2018. Eight suspects were also arresred for the seizures following the review and intensifing of operational modalities. Giving further details on the vehicles detained, Uba said, ” Ten out of the 21 vehicles were evacuated from Oluwalogbon Motors at 164 Awolowo Way Ikeja, based on credible information. While others were intercepted along Ijebu Ode Expressway. ” Some of the detained vehicles include 1 Mercedes benz G-500 (2016), 6 Toyota Hiace Bus (2018), 3 Lexus Jeep GX460and Lx570 (2017) 1 Toyota Hilux (2017 ), 1 Toyota Land Cruiser Prado,(2016) 1 Toyota Hilux bulletproof (2014), among others. ” These 21 exotic vehicles have a duty paid value of over N484 million and as I speak to you, nobody has come to claim ownership. Let me use this opportunity to urge the owners of these vehicles to come forward with valid Customs clearance documents otherwise they will be liable to seizure and subsequent forfeiture to the Federal Government in-line with laws of the land. “For the avoidance of doubt, our action is in line with the provisions of Sections 147 of Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) Cap 45, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 (power to search premises), Section 158 of CEMA, Cap 45 Laws of Federation of Nigeria (power to patrol freely).” On the seized foreign parboiled rice, Uba said every well meaning citizen has it as an obligation to support the Federal Government policy on rice, encourage local rice farmers, the millers and patronize them. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Customs Service has concluded plans to move some of the seized items to the camps of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno State. This was disclosed during a press briefing by the Controller of the Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’, Comptroller Mohammed Uba on Wednesday. Speaking on the plan, Uba said it was a directive from the Comptroller General of Customs as instructed by the Presidency. He said, ” Following the Presidential directive, the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali (rtd) has directed the evacuation and distribution from our warehouse the following items for onward delivery to Internally Displaced Persons
(IDPs) in Borno State by Nigerian Army Corps of Supply and Transport (NACST). ” it includes 11,579 bags of foreign parboiled rice 50 kg each, 627 and 485 jerrycans of vegetable oil 25 litres and 5 litres respectively, 248 bales and 219 sacks of used clothing, and 33 sacks of used shoes.” Commenting on the spate of attack on Customs personnel while on duty, Uba expressed dismay about the development, saying that the agency will no longer tolerate such infamous action. He said, “Over the incessant attacks on our officers, the CGC has directed, we will continue to make sure we defend ourselves at all times. Hence element that will dare officers on patrol is like embarking on a suicide mission. We wont tolerate such excesses from smugglers and their accomplices. I also wish to advise the general public, not to allow themselves to be used as shield by smugglers most especially, the host communities.” He maintained that no amount of resistance from the smugglers and their mob accomplices will deter Customs personnel from performing their statutory responsibilities in all aspects especially in anti- smuggling operations within southwest zone. He also thanked journalists for their continued support in the reportage of anti-smuggling drives, saying they are partners in progress. The Controller appreciated other security agencies that have been rendering necessary support most especially the Nigerian Army and Police. Uba also thanked the GGC and his management for their logistics support that brought all the success stories the agency enjoys.