A non partisan interest group, Kogi Youth Advocates of Good Governance, KYGG, has endorsed the younger brother of the late former Governor of Kogi state, Prince Yahaya Audu to contest as Senator representing Kogi East Senatorial District in the next election. Delegates of KYGG made the request when they paid a solidarity visit to the palace of the paramount ruler of Igala Kingdom, Attah of Igala, HRH Ameh Oboni the II and HRH, Alhaji Tijani Audu the Orego Attah / District Head Ogbonicha who is also a member of the family. Briefing journalists after the visit in Lokoja on Sunday, the convener of the forum, Comrade Jerry Ochada said there is an urgent need to compensate the Audu’s family to ensure political harmony in the state. According to him the forum is poised to agitate for justice for the dissatisfied and marginalised people across the state. He urged the incumbent leadership of Kogi state to remember the legacies of the former governor, Prince Abubakar Audu by immortalising his dreams. The statement reads in part:
“KYGG is a credible mouthpiece preaching the absolute engagements of good governance and political compensation when and where necessary. “In line with KYGG ideology of promoting justice and fairness for all, we have deliberated on the lingering political abnormalities trending sour in Kogi state. “In our thorough research and assessments, we keenly observed that every region in Kogi state is fighting to curb the ugly menace of marginalisation, oppression, political intimidation and the negative inclinations of political supremacy. “This is not a good development especially for our nascent democracy and it is gradually denting the political history of Kogi state. “To this end, this is an ample time for Kogites to unite by burying their differences in preparation for the next General Election, which we anticipate to be free and fair. However, the burden lies on the peaceful political atmosphere that MUST be established before the poll. “For justice and fairness to prevail in the affairs of Kogi Politics, the winner of the November 22, 2015 election, Prince Abubakar Audu’s family MUST be compensated in no distant time to ensure a level playing ground. “The forum also resolved to task and support the emergence of the leader of Audu Oyidi’s family, Prince Yahaya Audu to contest for the position of Senator, representing the good people of Kogi East in the hallowed chamber. “The group further seek to advice that the best way to immortalise the political legacies of the fallen hero, Prince Abubakar Audu is to unite efforts to ensure that a credible candidate like Prince Yahaya Audu who has displayed rare leadership qualities of unity and peace-co-existence amongst all political affiliations in the state is supported to make the late Prince Abubakar Audu proud of his legacies and service to the people of Kogi East Senatorial District,” he said. It will be recalled that Prince Abubakar Audu died at the verge of winning the 2015 election in Kogi state.