…To offer free surgeries to indigent patents
The Canadian Specialist Hospital (CSH), Dubai, has revealed its intention to establish a World Class medical facility that will cater to the tertiary health care needs of Nigerians. Speaking while briefing journalists in Abuja over the weekend, Mr. Anoop Achuthan, Head of Business Development Canadian Specialist Hospital, Anoop Achuthan, said that the facility will break new grounds in medical services delivery in Nigeria. According to him, the project has the potential to reduce the spate of medical tourism among Nigerians as well as provide safe and quality healthcare for Nigerians. He said, “ The Canadian Specialist Hospital (CSH) is the brainchild of its Chairman, Mr. Mohammad Rashid Al Falasi. The aim of establishing a facility in Nigeria is to help curb medical tourism among Nigerians, which is very high at the moment. Though it is not possible to fully stop Nigerians from embarking on medical trips abroad, but we can reduce the trend with the establishment of a world-class hospital, equipped with modern health facilities for diagnosis and treatment.” Speaking on the uniqueness of what CSH would be offering to Nigerians, Achuthan said, “More than 500 patients arrive at Canadian Specialist Hospitals each day. Today, we are home to more than 30 specialized centers, covering almost every segment of medicine. Our aim is to help the Nigerians for their healthcare requirements. We will send our European qualified doctors from Canadian Specialist Hospital (US, UK, German. Italian. Romanian. Poland. Indian etc) to one of the leading healthcare in Nigeria. So that the Nigerians can consult with the super specialists here in their home country. This will help to to save lots of money for travel abroad. Canadian Specialist Hospital will try to provide insurance coverage for the medical treatment at our Dubai branch. So that patients can avail cashless facility in Dubai.” Lamenting the high fatality rate of non- communicable diseases in Nigeria, Achuthan added that as part of the CSR activity, the Canadian Specialist Hospital will offer free surgeries for people that cannot afford the price. He said, “As part of the CSR activity, Canadian Specialist Hospital will perform some free surgeries for the people those who cannot afford the price. This will be done with the help of charity clubs and NGOs with mention certain conditions. “ For example, cardiology. Especially interventional cardiology like angioplasty it’s the treatment for removing the block from the heart. So the parents can avoid open heart surgeries. They have to pay for the medicines and materials used for it. For more details, write to anoop@csh.ae or Whatsapp/call +971566329915. For local contact in Nigeria, pls call Dr Huzaif Abdulrahman – 09099477745 “The mission of the hospital is to offer state-of-the-art diagnostic, curative and rehabilitative services of International standard and to render comprehensive genetic and prenatal services with evidence-based ethical healthcare for a healthy and happy community. He also spoke on what prompted CSH to establish facility in Nigeria. He said,” Canadian Specialist Hospital is one of the largest private hospitals in Dubai and the institution of choice for referrals from small and medium-sized medical centers that lack some of our specialized diagnostic and treatment facilities. CSH has grown to become one of the most advanced and comprehensive healthcare institutions in the region. “Canadian Specialist Hospital provide a wide range of medical services and houses most of the surgical facilities of Dubai. Continuous development and investment in technology, medical expertise and support facilities have contributed to the hospitals’ current stature as one of the preeminent medical institutions in the Middle East. “The Canadian Specialist Hospital (CSH) is the leading multispecialty, acute-cum-critical care referral hospital catering to the tertiary health care needs of the Middle East. Equipped with world class facilities and expertise. Embodying the qualities of world class hospitals in professional expertise and technology of international standards. Streamlined efficiency of services”.