Anambra born plus sized actress, Amara  Maduka is one of the fastest growing Nollywood screen diva who despite been on the big side has attracted lots of producer’s to reckon with her talent. Call her weird; as she is a lover of adventures as she said it feeds the soul; corned recently Amara spoke with MUTIAT ALLI on how she battled depression in the movie industry because of her body size, why she has never been in a relationship with any man but enjoys sexual intimacy when needed, take on the movie industry amongst others. Can you introduce yourself briefly? I’m Amara Maduka, from Anambra State. I’m from a family of 3. I’m the first daughter, second child. I’m an Actor, writer and aspiring producer. How long have you been acting? This is my 5th year. Can you mention names of some big movies you have done? I have featured in countless but some of the big ones include Maduka Daughters, Village Flavour, Okirika, The Israelite, Good marriage, 3 bad girls amongst others. How did you join the movie industry? Long planned out? I joined the industry after school. I knew I have the talent and I decided to pursue it. What were the challenges you faced at the early stage? My weight was a big challenge. I was very fat at the time and I didn’t get featured in characters I know I can deliver because all the producers saw was a fat, ugly girl. Not my talent. How did you overcome it? Oh well, when you get tired of being fed bullshit, you gotta make a change at some point. All that matters is how you see yourself. I knew I am more than they could see and that image alone, kept me going. Did it make you depressed? I battled depression at some point. But like I said, if you know who you are, nothing can stop you. Not for too long. Sexual harassment has also become a common trend in the entertainment industry, how did you scale through? I haven’t been sexually harassed by any producer. I’m one of the lucky ones, I guess. You hit the gym or worked on your size to fit in? I didn’t work on myself to “fit in”. I’m working on myself for me. I love to look good. And I’m only just getting started How supportive were your parents when you took the bold step to join Nollywood? I have just my Mom now. My Dad wouldn’t have allowed it, but My Mom is supportive. You lost your dad? Yeah. 2012. Did your boyfriend at that time, give you the go ahead? I’ve never really dated like dated anyone all my life. It’s funny but true. I’m just learning to truly give love a chance now. Why? I’m too sensitive. I thought not dating at all was best to avoid heartbreaks and all. So are you saying you are still a virgin? I said I didn’t date. I didn’t say I don’t have sex. Have you been heartbroken once? Not at all. So no emotional attachment with your partners? From me to them? No. From them, well people pretend a lot in this country. So I wouldn’t know. So how long can you stay without sex? Oh, I can stay for as long as I want to. I’m not a freak on sex. But when I get it, I get it good. I have heard people say to sexually satisfy a plus sized lady is a hard journey, how true? That’s based on individual differences. It’s wrong to generalize stuff like that. What’s your spec when it comes to Mr. Right for marriage? I’m attracted to a person’s mind and rarely the body. If he’s got a good heart and a sound mind, that’s it for me. Physical appearances don’t really count. Doesn’t mean I’d marry a monster or a dwarf though. But his pocket counts. I can’t help the world if I’m helpless. If you know what I mean. I need a rich man. You mentioned aspiring producer, any one on the pipeline already? Yes. Cooking up something good for my lovers.  Alaba release though. I have to  cut my coat according to my cloth for now. Nollywood is indeed going places, but there are still some lapses, what’s the way forward? The way forward is finance. Everything balls down to money. We don’t have investors. All we get is criticism and little support. Nigerians keep comparing us to Hollywood and it baffles me. We do what we do out of little or nothing and we are able to get result. Not Hollywood standard perhaps but if we have half of what those guys have, we’d shake the world. What would Amara be doing for a living, if she’s not an actress? I’d probably be into fashion. Which I’m still gonna visit eventually though. Who are those you had looked up to in the industry? Any crush on any male celebrity? No one. Your best fashion accessory? I really love my fancy rings and chains. Is that the fashion line you intend going into? I intend going into plus size Clothing. It’s difficult for a fat girl to find trendy clothes and I can help that. What inspires you? I draw inspiration from everything around me. Days ago a colleague of yours made a confession of the weirdest place she has had sex. What’s yours? The weirdest place I’ve had sex is in the pool. Were you not caught? It was a private pool. Do you like adventures? Of course, adventures feed the soul. I love adventures. Was the pool sex worth the while? You can’t imagine. Any regrets in life? None. I take the lessons and move on. Best moment as an actress? When someone looked me up on Facebook, asked for and account details and sent me money from London for making me his family laugh. Advice to young and aspiring actors? It gets easier, not harder. Hang in there. Have you ever been embarrassed by a male fan? No, I haven’t. Not physically though. 