Activities at the Abuja office of Amnesty International was temporarily brought to a halt as over 1000 protesters on Wednesday stormed the office to protest what they described as ‘plot to destabilise Nigeria.’ The angry protesters claimed that the international had concluded plans to release a report, which would attempt accuse the government troops and civilian JTF currently fighting the Boko Haram terrorists in the north east, of routinely detaining, raping, starving and kill women as well as minors. This development came barely one week after the Nigerian Army panel of inquiry exonerated the military of colliding with terrorists in the country. Addressing the protest, Comrade Danesi Momoh, the National Convener of the Civil Rights Groups, organiser of the protest, described the yet-to-be-released report as not only false but maliciously targeted at creating tension and unsettling the nation. He said Wednesday’s protest march was merely a rehearsal, insisting that the International agency must quit Nigeria if it fails to stop such false information. The full text below:
“Upon the expiration of today, at precisely midnight, Amnesty International is releasing a report, with which it plans to totally destabilize Nigeria. “The false report will among other things claim that government troops and Civilian JTF routinely detain, rape, starve and kill women as well as minors. It claims that “Instead of receiving protection from the authorities, women and girls have been forced to succumb to rape in order to avoid starvation or hunger.” “Several patriotic groups had only recently raised alarm that UNICEF is coordinating other international NGOs for evidence shopping as part of a major shift to start accusing the Federal Government and the military of sexual violence. This plot was being executed by UNICEF staff in conjunction with others under a purpose vehicle, Protection From Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA) Nigeria, with the mandate to tarnish authorities with alleged sexual crimes. Amnesty International has simply resumed the assignment it earlier handed over to PSEA and is now calling these agents of instability from PSEA its researchers. “We are aware that staff of Amnesty International, UNICEF and the other member-organizations of PSEA were given quotas on the number of alleged sexual abuse/sexual exploitation cases to file towards the realization of these lies packaged as a report. “ The decision of Amnesty International to only base its so-called report on 2015-2018 is suspect and confirms that whoever is financing its PSYOP in Nigeria is angry that the tide was turned against their Boko Haram agents since the current political and military leadership took over the helms of affairs in 2015. It is sickening that Amnesty International can now be using its report to praise the dark era when cities as far south as Kogi state were under siege from Boko Haram terrorists. “In its long-established tradition of compulsive lying, all its interviewees are unanimous. What is playing out here is another Nayira Testimony of Amnesty International’s Nayirah al-Ṣabaḥ legacy. It should have by now learnt that there are discerning people that see through these lies even before they are told. We are aware that Amnesty International has learnt since the Nayira saga to obscure the identity of its so call witnesses so that it becomes impossible to verify its claims, which would invariably be found to be lies since that is what its agenda thrives on. “We like to put our military, intelligence and security agencies on notice that this is a pattern we have become all too familiar with. Whenever Amnesty International issues this kind of report it means it has just concluded paying mobilization to its Boko Haram fighters, recruited new suicide bombers and provided psychotropic drugs and explosives – all geared towards helping the terrorists regroup. “It will not be surprising if there is a sudden spike in attempted Boko Haram attacks and lot diversionary incidents involving Amnesty International-backed separatist, extremist and militant groups operating in Nigeria. This has been the pattern over the years and we see same repeating in the coming days now that the criminal NGO is releasing its report. “We therefore warn authorities to be vigilant for this spike in attacks. “They must also begin to build confidence of the population because the war on terrorism has now spread to become the battle for perception as Amnesty International is intensifying efforts at maligning the country’s security architecture so that people will perceive the military in bad light and stop volunteering information that have been crucial to degrading Boko Haram. “The Federal Government is hereby reminded that the demand made last year for it to kick Amnesty International out of the country has not been withdrawn. Amnesty International, its staffers and so-called researchers are persona non grata and Nigerians shall not be liable for whatever befalls them as a consequence of trying to emasculate the military as part of larger plot to collapse Nigeria. “Nigerians are not going to sheepishly step on the conveyor belt of Amnesty International’s destabilization agenda to be like Iraq, Yemen, Libya and other countries where Amnesty International has successfully executed its contract of incapacitating the military through webs of lies spun in the name of upholding human rights. “The protest march of today is merely a rehearsal. It is the beginning of the occupation of Amnesty International until it gets out of our country. With the tenacity the NGO has shown in its bid to destroy Nigeria, we will not pull back like we did the last time its lies made us to occupy its premises. We have had enough of its destabilizing lies and we say Amnesty International must leave Now!”