* Commends workers for accepting reforms
Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello has saluted the civil servants in the state for their “sacrificial understanding of the unwavering commitment of his administration to civil service reforms”, saying their “patriotic sacrifices have beginning to yield fruits”. The Governor who stated this on Tuesday in a statement released through his Director General of Media and Publicity, Kingsley Fanwo, said his administration “perfectly understands the place of labour in deepening democracy and development” and shall continue to partner with labour to make Kogi State more “prosperous and more generous to the destinies of future generations”. Bello implored workers to continue to cooperate with his administration in its avowed drive to make the state a better place for all. “The labour movement around the world has been an assured partner against corruption and human rights abuse. It is therefore understandable that labour keyed into our civil service reforms to rid the service of unintended beneficiaries who had deprived genuine workers of their rights to regular wages and salaries. “I have tremendous respect for labour because they are not only the most important contributor to our development agenda, but they are veritable partners in promoting excellence in governance. Good governance is enhanced and catalyzed by a well motivated labour. “It is our hope that labour will continue to support our agenda of ensuring discipline and productivity in government work places to serve our people well and create wealth for our dear State,” the governor said. He also assured labour of “pragmatic, beneficial programs that will rebound the morale of labour”, saying his administration will continue to “prioritize payment of salaries to boost the morale of workers and their confidence in the administration”. He urged labour to continue to support the New Direction Agenda of Government in order to build a “virile, strong and better Kogi State”. “The Kogi I am striving to build cannot be achieved without your unalloyed support and commitment to duty. I therefore urge all the Kogi workers to continue to support our administration”, he said. The Governor said that despite the drastic drop in revenue allocation to the State and the competing needs of the state, his administration has continued to do its best in the payment of salaries and pensions. The governor assured that he would continue to support the labour movement to play its role in helping his administration become the “best ever in the history of the state.”