…UN wants INEC to conduct credible elections
One hundred and eighty days to the 2019 general elections, the Federal Government is yet to release the N189.2 billion budget approved by the National Assembly for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the polls. This was disclosed by INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, on Tuesday, while receiving a special representation of the United Nations Secretary General led by Mr. Mohammed Ibn Chambas at the Commission’s secretariat in Abuja. He said the commission is pressed to procure some essential election materials such as printing of ballot papers, ballot boxes and others in good time while expenses on logistics could come clearly next year before the February 16, 2019 commencement of elections. Represented by Dr. Mustapha Leki, the INEC chairman said it is hopeful that Federal Government will meet the election budget demands in good time. He reiterated the commission’s determination to conduct free, fair and credible elections, promising to further improve on previous elections conducted recently. Calling for an improved capacity building for security personnel, Leki said INEC will further interface with stakeholders and assured recently registered voters of adequate collection of their voters’ registration cards before the commencement of polls. Leader of the team, Mr. Mohammed Ibn Chambas, urged INEC to ensure that it conducts credible elections in 2019. The United Nations said it met with the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari as well as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, on how to effect the fast release of election funding. The global body asked the Electoral Commission to display its leadership role as a leading election management body in the West African sub-region by being impartial and unbiased in the conduct of the coming polls. Having met with other stakeholders such as the civil society organisations, security agencies and the chief of staff to the President, the body said that it is interested in the outcome of the 2019 elections. The global body urged security agencies not to be partisan but to play its constitutional role of providing security during the polls as well as protecting voters. Chambas promised further assistance of the United Nations and its agencies in ensuring that Nigeria had a successful polls in 2019.