…Charges Uzondinma APC, Oduah PDP with non- declaration of assets
The anti-graft war has landed in the Senate as the Federal Government has filed criminal charges against two serving senators: Senators Hope Uzodinma (APC, Imo) and Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra) and accused them of allegedly failing to declare their assets. The two count charges against the two senators were filed before the Federal High Court in Abuja by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) in the name of the Federal Government. The Daily Times further gathered on Tuesday that the charges against Senator Oduah has been assigned to Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, while the one filed against Senator Uzodinma was assigned to Justice Babatunde Quadri of the Federal High Court in Abuja. The charge against Stella Oduah marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/110/2018 reads in part: “That you, Senator Stella Oduah on or about March 29, 2018 being a public officer with the National Assembly committed an offence to wit: refused to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004. “That you, Senator Stella Oduah on March 29, 2018 being a pubic officer with the National Assembly, committed an offence to wit: neglected to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004” On his part, Senator Uzodinma, who is contesting to have won the All Progressives Congress (APC) Imo State Governorship Primary is facing charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/107/2018, that reads thus: “That you, Senator Hope Uzodinma on March 5, 2018 being a public officer with the National Assembly, committed an offence to wit: refused to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja, contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004. “That you Senator Hope Uzodmma on March 5, 2018 being a public officer that the National Assembly, committed an offence to wit: neglected to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja, contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004.” No date has been fixed for the hearing of the matter against the two senators.