…As Party streamlines presidential support, volunteer Groups
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) fortunes in the 2019 Presidential election has received a boost with women in Kogi state announcing their plan to stage a 1.2 million-man march in support of the party’s Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. This is just as the PDP has announced the streamlining of all its Presidential support and volunteer groups across the country, to ensure a centralized activity under the supervision of the party and the Presidential Campaign Council. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, who received a delegation of a presidential women support group, Success Initiative Women for Atiku, at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday stated that the party has opened strategic platforms for all support groups to directly participate in the campaign. He said the PDP has received “unprecedented goodwill and support from millions of Nigerians across all sections of the country, irrespective of ethnicity, religious and political leaning, since the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as our Presidential candidate. “Today, Atiku Abubakar has the highest demography of support and volunteer groups across the nooks and crannies of our country. The support we are receiving is monumental”, he said. Ologbondiyan said Nigerians are eager to vote in Atiku Abubakar due to his proven national and international connection and capacity for wealth creation, massive employment opportunities for the youths, as well as ability to engender national cohesion and unity among the people. While urging Nigerians to disregard the smear campaigns by the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC), the PDP spokesman assured that the PDP will run an issue based campaign with all support groups streamlined for coordinated action. He explained that the PDP has already created critical engagement platforms to coordinate all its activities, adding that all its campaign strategies, policy direction, programmes and promise to Nigerians will be streamlined through the party to ensure effectiveness and responsibility. He therefore urged the women not to relent but continue to propagate the message until victory is secured. Earlier, the leader of the group, Evangelist Funso Lami Johnson, congratulated the party for the choice of Atiku Abubakar as Presidential candidate while informing of the plans already perfected to stage a 1.2 million-man match in support of Atiku in Kogi state.